The Project Gutenberg EBook of Don Gordon's Shooting-Box, by Harry Castlemon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Don Gordon's Shooting-Box

Author: Harry Castlemon

Release Date: November 8, 2016 [EBook #53479]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DON GORDON'S SHOOTING-BOX ***




Produced by KD Weeks, David Edwards and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)






------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Transcriber몭s Note:

This version of the text cannot represent certain typographical effects.
Italics are delimited with the 몬_몭 character as _italic_.

Minor errors, attributable to the printer, have been corrected. Please
see the transcriber몭s note at the end of this text for details regarding
the handling of any textual issues encountered during its preparation.

[Illustration: Harry Castlemon]

                         _ROD AND GUN SERIES._

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              DON GORDON몭S

                             SHOOTING-BOX.

                                   BY

                            HARRY CASTLEMON,

         AUTHOR OF 몮THE GUNBOAT SERIES,몯 몮BOY TRAPPER SERIES,몯
                       몮ROUGHING IT SERIES,몯 ETC.


[Illustration: colophon]


                             PHILADELPHIA:
                            PORTER & COATES.




                  COPYRIGHT, 1883, BY PORTER & COATES.




                               CONTENTS.

                              CHAPTER I.
                                                         PAGE
          THE MILITARY ACADEMY                              5

                              CHAPTER II.
          DON AND BERT AT SCHOOL                           18

                             CHAPTER III.
          HAZING A 몮PLEBE몯                                 36

                              CHAPTER IV.
          THE NEW YORK BOOT-BLACK                          55

                              CHAPTER V.
          DON AND BERT HAVE VISITORS                       73

                              CHAPTER VI.
          CONY RYAN몭S PANCAKES                             92

                             CHAPTER VII.
          RUNNING THE GUARD                               111

                             CHAPTER VIII.
          HOW DON GOT IN                                  131

                              CHAPTER IX.
          DON몭S YANKEE INVENTION                          152

                              CHAPTER X.
          BREAKING UP THE 몮SET몯                           173

                              CHAPTER XI.
          THE STUDENTS IN CAMP                            192

                             CHAPTER XII.
          THE DESERTERS AT THE SHOW                       215

                             CHAPTER XIII.
          A NIGHT ATTACK                                  237

                             CHAPTER XIV.
          DON GORDON몭S SHOOTING-BOX                       260

                              CHAPTER XV.
          LESTER BRIGHAM MAKES NEW FRIENDS                285

                             CHAPTER XVI.
          THE MAIL-CARRIER IN TROUBLE                     307

                             CHAPTER XVII.
          CONCLUSION                                      330




                       DON GORDON몭S SHOOTING-BOX.

                             --------------




                               CHAPTER I.
                         THE MILITARY ACADEMY.


몮Well, now, I am disgusted.몯

몮So am I. I call it a most unusual proceeding.몯

몮That is a very mild term to be applied to it. _I_ call it an outrage.
The Professor has deliberately gone to work to disgrace the school and
every student in it.몯

몮That몭s my opinion. I shall give my father a full history of the case in
the next letter I write to him; and I incline to the belief that he will
order me to pack my trunk and start for home.몯

몮I know that is what my father will do. Why, fellows, just think of it
for a moment! What if this street gamin, who has been brought here as
the Professor몭s pet, should accidentally win a warrant at the next
examination?몯

몮Or a commission! That would be worse yet. Wouldn몭t a gentleman몭s son
look nice obeying his orders멪the orders of a bootblack?몯

몮I몭ll never do that. I몭ll stay in the guard-house until I am gray-headed
first.몯

몮Well, I won몭t. I몭ll go home first.몯

This conversation took place one cold, frosty morning in the latter part
of January, 18멪, among the members of a little party of boys who were
walking up the path that led to the door of the Bridgeport Military
Academy. There were a dozen of them in all, and their ages varied from
thirteen to sixteen years. They looked like young soldiers, dressed as
they were in their neat, well-fitting uniforms of cadet gray, set off by
light blue trimmings; but it seems that they were anything but good
soldiers just then, for their words indicated a determination on their
part to rebel against lawful authority.

The Bridgeport Military School was a time-honored, wealthy, and
aristocratic institution. It was modeled after the school at 몮the
Point,몯 and although its course of study differed materially from that
pursued at the national academy, its rules of discipline were almost the
same. It was intended to fit boys for college, for business, for civil
or mining engineering, or for West Point, if they wanted to go there and
could command influence enough to secure the appointment; and in order
that they might begin early in life to realize the majesty and dignity
of law, and to see the necessity of submitting to it as becomes good
citizens of the republic, they were put through a course of military
drill as strict as that to which they would have been subjected if they
had been private soldiers in the regular army.

The majority of the students멪there were nearly three hundred of them in
all--were deeply in love with the school, and with every body and every
thing connected with it. Although they were obliged to study hard for
seven months in the year to avoid being dropped from their classes, and
to watch themselves closely in order to keep within the rules, they were
allowed two seasons of rest and recreation during the year; a faithful
student could always obtain a pass for an evening, provided his standing
as a soldier was what it should be, and warrants and commissions were to
be obtained by anybody who was willing to work for them. More than that,
the institution was endeared to them by a thousand old-time
associations. The fathers of some of the present students had sat in
those same seats, pronounced their orations from that very rostrum,
handled those same muskets and swords, and been drilled at the identical
guns that still composed the battery, and their sons had heard them
speak in the highest terms of the benefits derived from the instructions
they had there received during the days of their boyhood. Under these
circumstances it was no wonder that the students took pride in their
school, and that the most of them had come there with the determination
that no act of theirs should in any way detract from its high and
long-established reputation.

But if these were the sentiments of some of the boys, there was a small
but busy minority who cherished feelings that were exactly the
reverse멪boys who had been sent there because they could not be
controlled at home, who were restive under the restraints that were
imposed upon them, and whose sole object was to complete the course and
get away from the school with as little trouble to themselves as
possible. These were the fellows who were always in trouble. They did
not mind their hard lessons so much as they did the fatiguing drills
with muskets and broadswords. They envied the officers in their class on
account of the authority they possessed, the extra privileges that fell
to their lot, and the respect they demanded from the rest of the
students; but they were not willing to work for a commission themselves,
and they did not like those who were. They ran the guard at every
opportunity to eat pancakes with Cony Ryan, who was quite as important a
personage at Bridgeport as Benny Havens is, or used to be, at West
Point, and did penance for it the next Saturday by performing extra duty
as sentries with bricks in their knapsacks. When they saluted a member
of the class above them, as the law required them to do, they did it in
a very sullen and ungracious manner; but if a member of the class below
them neglected his duty in this respect, they were prompt to take him to
task for it.

The two meanest boys in school were Tom Fisher and Clarence Duncan, who,
at the time our story opens, had been members of the academy just two
years. They were smart enough at their books and stood well in their
classes when they felt in the humor to apply themselves; but their
record as soldiers was something of which they ought to have been
ashamed. Tom, to put it in plain English, was a sneak, and Clarence was
a bully, who boasted of his ability to whip any boy in school. These
boys had a good many adherents among the students, and if there were any
mischief done about the village it was pretty certain to be traced home
to them.

The two seasons of rest and recreation of which we have spoken were the
camping-out frolic, that came off in August, and the vacation, which
began on the 15th of September and continued until the 15th of January.
Then the boys went home to spend the holidays and show their uniforms.
When the time came to go into camp no one was excused except upon the
surgeon몭s certificate of disability. In fact there were very few among
them who ever asked to be excused. Even the most studious had grown
tired of their books by this time, and were anxious to get out among the
hills where they could breathe invigorating air, go trout-fishing and
botanizing, and in various other ways brace up their nerves in readiness
for the searching examination that was to be held immediately on their
return to the academy.

This camp was intended as a school of review. Theory was reduced to
practice, and those of the students who kept their eyes and ears open,
and tried to profit by the instructions there received, were almost sure
to pass the examination with flying colors. The civil engineers surveyed
the bar in the river, just as their fathers had done before them; staked
out the best route for a canal around the falls, and laid out a railroad
and got everything in readiness for tunneling the hills to let it
through. The military engineers, under cover of a hot fire of blank
cartridges from the battery, threw pontoon bridges over the creek, and
when they were finished, the infantry, which had been concealed in a
ravine close by, charged across them and swarmed up the opposite heights
to dislodge an enemy that was supposed to be intrenched there. They
fortified the hills to prevent the approach of an invading army, sent
out scouts to scour the surrounding country, held drumhead
courts-martial, and tried everybody who was reported for any
misdemeanor; in fact, they did everything that soldiers do when they are
in the field.

Perhaps two or three days would be spent in this way, and then there
would come two or three days of rest, during which the young soldiers
would roam about the woods and fields, going wherever their fancy led
them. When the examination came off, the graduates were presented with
their diplomas and the degrees that the institution was empowered to
confer, new officers were appointed from among the students, the classes
were reorganized, new applicants were received, and everything was made
ready for work at the beginning of the new school year.

At the time of which we write the school had been in session about two
weeks. Two hundred and fifty of the old students had returned, and the
places of the large number who were graduated at the close of the last
term were filled by the second class, which became the first; the third
became the second, the fourth became the third, and the new fourth was
made up of the 몮Plebes몯 who had signed the muster-roll. Why the
new-comers were called 몮Plebes,몯 which is short for 몮plebeians,몯 it is
hard to tell. Perhaps it was because their fathers, in the days of their
boyhood, had given that name to all new scholars, or it may have been
for the reason that everybody was down on them. They certainly looked
out of place there. They still wore their citizens몭 clothes, the
uniforms for which they had been measured when they first arrived not
having yet been received. They were not allowed to go on dress-parade
because they could not handle a musket; and as they had not yet been
몮broken in,몯 they were a little too independent in their conduct to suit
the old students, who exacted the greatest show of respect from those
who were below them.

Among these 몮Plebes몯 was one whose advent created the profoundest
astonishment among some of the students. The boys we have already
introduced to the reader were talking about him as they came up the
path. They were Tom Fisher and his crowd. Having drawn the capes of
their overcoats over their heads, they were strolling leisurely along,
paying no heed to the cutting wind that swept across the snow-covered
parade-ground; but the thinly clad young fellow who came up the path
behind them was shivering violently under its influence. His hands and
face were blue with cold, and his feet were so poorly protected that he
was obliged to stop now and then and stamp them on the ground to get
them warm. The noise he made attracted the attention of Tom Fisher and
his companions, who turned to see what had occasioned it.

몮Here he comes now,몯 exclaimed Dick Henderson, a fair-haired,
sunny-faced little fellow, whose mother would have been ashamed of him
if she had known what sort of company he was keeping at the academy.
몮Say, you fellow, where are your manners?몯

Only one short year ago Dick was a 몮Plebe몯 himself; but now he was a
third class boy, and he was resolved that everybody should know it and
treat him accordingly.

몮Let him go, Dick,몯 said Tom Fisher, in a tone of disgust. 몮You would be
highly honored by a salute from a bootblack, wouldn몭t you, now?몯

몮Who are these?몯 said Clarence Duncan, in a low tone.

Tom and his crowd looked down the path and saw two other new-comers
approaching. In appearance they were very unlike the shivering,
half-frozen boy who had just gone along the path. They were warmly clad,
wore sealskin caps and gloves, and there was something in their air and
bearing that proclaimed them to be boys who respected themselves, and
who intended that others should respect them. One of them was tall and
broad-shouldered, and carried himself as though he had never been in the
habit of submitting to any nonsense, and the other was small, slender,
and apparently delicate.

몮Why, they are the Planter and his brother,몯 said one of the students,
all of whom had had opportunity to learn more or less of the history of
the boys who composed the fourth class. 몮They몭re from Mississippi. Their
father is worth no end of money, and they say he gives his boys a very
liberal allowance.몯

몮Then they몭ll be good fellows to foot the bills at Cony Ryan몭s, will
they not?몯 said Fisher.

몮They say that the little one is a saint,몯 chimed in Dick Henderson. 몮He
never does anything wrong; but his brother must be a brick, for he was
expelled from the last school he attended on account of some violation
of the rules.몯

몮Then he몭s the fellow for us,몯 said Tom Fisher. 몮We must make it a point
to see him after taps.몯

The near approach of the new-comers cut short the conversation. Tom and
his crowd strolled leisurely on, filling up the path so completely that
it was impossible for any one to pass them without stepping out into the
deep snow that had been thrown up on each side. This the new scholars
did not seem inclined to do. The smaller one came up behind Dick
Henderson, and placing the back of his hand against his arm, said
pleasantly:

몮Will you be good enough to give us a little room?몯

Tom and his friends faced about at once, and the former stepped up to
the speaker and laid his hand rather heavily on his shoulder.

몮Look here, Plebe,몯 said he, in an insolent tone. 몮몬Subordination is of
discipline the root; when you address an old cadet, forget not to
salute.몭 Mind that in future.몯

몮Take your hand off that boy, or I will salute you with a blow in the
face that will bury you out of sight in that snowdrift,몯 said he who had
been called the 몮Planter.몯

몮Who are you?몯 demanded Fisher.

몮Take a good look at me so that you will remember me,몯 was the reply.

The boy drew off his gloves and pulled down his muffler, revealing the
familiar features of our old friend, Don Gordon. Just then the clear
notes of a bugle rang out on the frosty air. It was the 몮study call,몯
and all the students within hearing made haste to respond to it.




                              CHAPTER II.
                        DON AND BERT AT SCHOOL.


Don Gordon and his brother Hubert were two of the heroes of the _Boy
Trapper_ series. Those who have met them before will not need to be told
what sort of boys they were; and strangers we will leave to do as the
boys of the Bridgeport Academy did멪become acquainted with them by
degrees. They lived near the little town of Rochdale, in the State of
Mississippi, where their father owned an extensive cotton plantation.
That was the reason why the students, who had a new name for every
new-comer, called Don the Planter. The last time we spoke of him and
Hubert was in connection with the building of a _Shooting-Box_ on the
site of the one that had been burned by Bob Owens and Lester Brigham. We
then informed the reader that the new structure was much better than the
old one, and that is all we shall say about it until such time as the
owners get ready to take possession of it.

After Bob Owens ran away from home to become a hunter, and Godfrey Evans
and his son Dan went to work to earn an honest living, and David Evans
became _mail carrier_, and Lester Brigham withdrew himself from the
society of the boys in the neighborhood, the inhabitants of Rochdale and
the surrounding country settled back into their old ways, and waited for
something to happen that would create an excitement. They marveled
greatly at the sudden change that had taken place in Godfrey and Dan,
talked of the indomitable courage Bob Owens had displayed on the night
the steamer Sam Kendall was burned, and cast jealous eyes upon David
Evans, who, they thought, was making money a little too rapidly, and
throwing on a few more airs than were becoming in a boy who had a
woodchopper, and a lazy and worthless one at that, for a father.

Rochdale was like some other country towns that you may have heard of.
The people, most of whom had been impoverished by the war, were envious
of one another, though outwardly they were friendly, and all one had to
do to gain enemies was to be successful. If he made money one year by
planting potatoes, when the next season came around everybody planted
potatoes. If he set up a blacksmith shop or opened a store, and seemed
to be prospering, some one was sure to start opposition to him. When
David Evans began riding the mail route for Don Gordon몭s father, who had
the contract, and exchanged his rags for warm and durable clothing, and
purchased a fine horse for himself, there were a good many who thought
that he was getting on in the world altogether too fast. His most bitter
enemy was Mr. Owens, who had tried so hard to secure the contract for
his son Bob, the runaway. He generally rode a very dilapidated specimen
of horse-flesh, and whenever David passed him on the road, mounted on
his high-stepping colt, Mr. Owens always felt as though he wanted to
knock him out of his saddle.

몮Just look at that beggar on horseback!몯 he would say to himself.
몮Things have come to a pretty pass when white trash like that can hold
their heads so high in the air. If it hadn몭t been for him and that
meddlesome Gordon, Bob might have been riding that route now instead of
roaming about the world, nobody knows where. If the opportunity ever
presents itself I몭ll get even with both of them for that piece of
business.몯

As for Don and Bert, they hardly knew what to do with themselves. Their
private tutor left them멪being a Northern man he could not stand the
climate멪and then they were as uneasy as fish out of their native
element. They galloped their ponies about the country in search of
adventure, paddled around the lake in their canoe, roamed listlessly
through the woods with their guns in their hands; in short, to quote
from Don, 몮they became as shiftless and of as little use in the world as
ever Godfrey Evans had been.몯

몮I don몭t at all like this thing,몯 the general one day said to his wife,
몮and there must be a stop put to it. The boys will grow up as ignorant
as the negroes. I shall pack them both off to school.몯

Mrs. Gordon thought of the way in which Don had conducted himself at the
last school he attended (he had been expelled from it on account of the
몮scrapes몯 that his inordinate love of mischief brought him into), and
made no reply.

몮I have not forgotten that unfortunate occurrence,몯 said the general,
who well knew what was passing in his wife몭s mind. 몮But I think it was a
lesson to Don, and one that will never fade from his memory. Being
blessed with wonderful health and strength, he is fairly overflowing
with animal spirits, and some of his surplus energy must be worked off
in some way. I몭ll put him where he will be held with his nose close to
the grindstone. I몭ll send him to Bridgeport.몯

몮Do you think he can endure the discipline?몯 asked the anxious mother,
who knew how easily Don could be governed by kindness, and how obstinate
he was under harsh treatment.

몮He몭ll have to; it is just what he needs. After he has spent six hours
in racking his brain over the hardest kind of problems in mathematics,
and two hours and a half more in handling muskets and broadswords under
the eye of a strict drillmaster, he will feel more like going to bed
than he will like running the guard to eat Cony Ryan몭s pancakes and
drink his sour buttermilk. I know, for I have been right there.몯

When General Gordon once made up his mind to a course of action he lost
no time in carrying it into effect. Before the week was passed he and
his two boys were on their way to Bridgeport, where they arrived in time
to learn something of the life the students led while they were in camp.
The veteran superintendent welcomed the general as an old friend and
pupil, received him and his boys into his marquee, and took pains to see
that the latter made some agreeable acquaintances among the members of
the first class, who showed them every thing there was to be seen. Bert
did not have much to say, but Don was all enthusiasm.

몮That몭s the school for me,몯 said he to his father when they were on
their way to Rochdale, after Don and Bert had passed their examination
and been admitted as members of the academy. 몮How nicely those fellows
were drilled, and what good-natured gentlemen all the instructors are!
We shall have easy times during the first year. It will seem like play
for me to go back to the beginning of algebra again.몯

The general smiled, but said nothing until they reached home and the
boys began to get ready to go back to the academy at the beginning of
the school year. Then he tried to make them understand that 몮easy times몯
were entirely unknown in Bridgeport; that the instructors, although they
were 몮good-natured몯 enough to the guests they met while in camp, were
the sternest and most inflexible of disciplinarians in the barracks; and
that there was as wide a gulf between them and the students as there was
between the officers and privates in the army. Somehow Don could not
bring himself to believe it, but before many months more had passed over
his head he found out that his father knew what he was talking about. He
made his mother the most solemn promises in regard to his behavior,
assuring her that he had been in 몮scrapes몯 enough, and that henceforth
he would give her and his teachers no trouble; and when he made those
promises he was fully resolved to live up to them. He was then entirely
unacquainted with the temptations that fell to the lot of a Bridgeport
student. Cony Ryan몭s pancakes and surreptitious sleigh-rides had no
charms for him, neither had the guard-house and extra duty any terrors,
because he did not know that there were any such things. But they were
soon brought to his notice, and perhaps we shall see how he kept his
promises after that.

The night of the 15th of January found Don and Bert installed in their
room in the academy. It was large enough to accommodate two single beds,
a steam-heater, a washstand, a table, and two chairs. At the foot of
each bed was a small cupboard, in which they were to keep their
uniforms, after they got them, and also their officers몭 swords, if they
were fortunate enough to win them at the next examination. Bert was
poring over his French lesson, while Don, who was more than a year ahead
of his class in all his studies, was reading the 몮Rules and Regulations몯
that hung upon the wall. There were fifty rooms on that floor, all
occupied by boys who were supposed to be studying their lessons for the
morrow. The only sound that broke the stillness was a steady tramping in
the hall.

몮I wish that fellow, whoever he is, would go into his room and keep
still,몯 said Bert, after he had waited a long time for the tramping to
cease.

몮He몭ll not go away until he is relieved,몯 replied Don. 몮He is a sentry.
I have just been reading about him. He has charge of all the rooms on
this floor, and it is his duty to suppress all loud talking or laughing,
and to inspect the rooms occasionally to see that the occupants have not
slipped out.몯

몮Where would they go if they did slip out?몯 asked Bert.

몮I am sure I don몭t know,몯 replied Don, as he walked up to the heater and
held his hands over it. 몮Neither do I see why one should want to leave a
comfortable room like this to parade around in the deep snow, even if
there _were_ a place to go to pass the evening. It몭s fearful cold up
here in this country, isn몭t it?몯

When Don and Bert left their Southern home the air was balmy, the birds
were singing, a few early flowers were beginning to bud under the genial
influence of the sun, and they earned their overcoats done up in
shawl-straps; but long before they reached their journey몭s end they had
put on all their heaviest clothing, and when the train brought them into
Bridgeport they found the streets blocked with snow, and the river
covered with a sheet of ice that was fourteen inches in thickness. The
dreary winter scene that met their gaze every time they looked out of
the academy windows made them shiver involuntarily, and it was no wonder
that they wanted to hug the fire.

몮Suppose that sentry should find a room empty when he looked into it?몯
said Bert, without replying to his brother몭s question. 몮What then?몯

몮It would be his duty to report the owners,몯 said Don.

몮That looks almost too much like tale-bearing,몯 answered Bert. 몮I don몭t
like the idea; do you?몯

몮No, I don몭t; but what is a fellow to do about it? If it ever comes our
turn to stand sentry during study hours, we can take our choice between
doing our full duty, without fear or favor, and being reported and
punished ourselves for negligence. I know what my choice will be. If the
boys don몭t want me to report them, they must live up to the
regulations.몯

When Don said this he meant every word of it; but after he had been at
the academy a few weeks, Bert noticed that he never gave expression to
such ideas as these. He learned how to keep his back turned toward a
room when he had reason to believe that the owners desired to 몮take
French몯 for the evening; and when he was certain that they were out of
harm몭s way, he could open the door of that very room, and without much
stretching of his imagination convert the 몮dummies몯 that occupied the
beds into living, breathing students. It soon became known to a certain
class of boys that the Planter was a 몮brick,몯 who would rather get into
trouble himself than report any of his schoolmates; and they were not
slow to take advantage of his good-nature. That was the term the
students applied to his neglect of duty; but the superintendent called
it disobedience of orders, and Don was punished accordingly.

몮What was that noise?몯 exclaimed Bert, suddenly.

몮It sounded like a drum,몯 answered Don.

And that was just what it was. A couple of drummers were walking around
the building, every now and then giving their instruments a single tap.

몮It certainly means something,몯 said Bert, with no little anxiety in his
tone; 몮but I am all in the dark.몯

So was Don. He was about to propose that they should step out into the
hall and ask the sentry to enlighten them, when the door suddenly opened
and that dreaded functionary thrust his head into the room.

몮I say, Plebe,몯 he exclaimed, nodding to Don, 몮give us your name, will
you?몯

Don wonderingly complied, and the sentry drew a note-book from his
pocket and wrote something in it.

몮Very unpleasant piece of business,몯 said he, 몮but it can몭t be helped.
Orders are orders, as you will find before you have been here a great
while. Next time keep your ears open.몯

몮Why, what몭s the matter?몯 inquired Don. 몮Have we done anything wrong?몯

몮I should say so. Why didn몭t you douse your glim? Did you not hear the
signal?몯

몮We heard a drum, if that몭s what you mean,몯 said Bert.

몮That was 몬taps,몭 and it meant 몬lights out.몭 Put that lamp out at once.몯

몮We몭ll do it just as soon as we get ready for bed,몯 replied Bert,
jumping up and pulling off his coat.

몮Put it out, I tell you,몯 exclaimed the sentry. 몮Put it out _now_, and
undress in the dark, as the rest of the fellows do. You had better take
my advice and slumber lightly, for after the morning gun is fired you
will have just six minutes in which to get into your clothes and fall in
for roll-call. Pleasant dreams.몯

몮Humph!몯 said Bert, as the sentry closed the door and went out into the
hall to inspect the other rooms. 몮How can a fellow몭s dreams be pleasant
when he knows that he is going to be reported in the morning? This is a
bad beginning, Don. Although we have not been here twenty-four hours, we
have got ourselves into trouble already.몯

This reflection worried Bert, who always tried hard to obey the rules of
the school he attended, and considered himself disgraced if he were
taken to task for violating any of them; but it had no more effect upon
Don than water has on a duck몭s back. He tumbled into bed and slept
soundly, while Bert, who was very much afraid that he might not hear the
morning gun, lay awake during the greater part of the night. Toward
morning he sank into a troubled slumber, from which the solemn booming
of the field-piece aroused him.

He and Don were out on the floor and putting on their clothes before the
deep-toned reverberations that came from the hills on the other side of
the river had fairly died away. There was no time lost in stretching and
yawning멪not a second wasted in waking up. The drums were beating in the
drill-room, and the fifes were shrilly piping forth the first strains of
the three tunes that constituted the morning call. Before the second
tune was finished, Don and Bert, following the lead of the crowd of
students they found in the hall, ran into the drill-room and took their
places in line.

There were four companies in all, each one numbering, when the school
was full, seventy-five members. They were all officered by boys, the
highest in rank being the lieutenant-colonel, while the superintendent
of the academy, or one of the instructors, acted as commandant of the
battalion. The companies were drawn up on the four sides of the spacious
drill-room, in which all the battalion and company exercises and
ceremonies were held during bad weather, the members standing at 몮parade
rest.몯 In front of each company stood the upright, soldierly figure of
the first sergeant, note-book in hand. Behind him stood his boy captain,
while the officer of the day, his arms folded across his breast,
critically surveyed the scene from his post near the door. The instant
the last notes of the reveille died away business commenced.

몮Attention, company!몯 shouted all the first sergeants in a breath;
whereupon the students brought their heels in line, dropped their hands
by their side, turned their eyes to the front, and assumed the position
of a soldier.

The roll was called in less than two minutes, and after the first
sergeants had reported to their captains, and the captains had reported
to the adjutant, and the adjutant had reported to the officer of the
day, whose duty it was to report the absentees to the superintendent,
the guards for the day were detailed, the ranks were broken, and the
students hurried away to wash their hands and faces, comb their hair,
and put their rooms in order for morning inspection. After that came two
hours of hard study. Then the sick-call was sounded, followed shortly
afterward by the enlivening strains of 몮Peas upon the Trencher,몯 which
was the summons to breakfast. The different companies were marched to
and from the dining-hall by their quartermaster-sergeants, and when the
ranks were broken the students were allowed an hour to 몮brush up몯 on
their lessons for the day, or to stroll about the grounds and watch
guard-mount. At nine o몭clock the bugle called them to their respective
recitation-rooms, and from that time until one they were kept at work at
their books. After dinner an hour was allowed for rest and recreation.
From two until half-past three there were more recitations, followed by
a long and fatiguing drill, and then liberty until sunset. Then came the
dress-parade of the battalion; and when that was ended the day몭s work
was over with everybody except the guards and those who were behind with
their lessons for the next day. After supper and another hour of
recreation, the bugle called 몮to quarters,몯 and that was a sound that
nobody liked to hear. It meant that all the fun was over for that day,
that every boy must go to his room at once and keep quiet after he got
there, under penalty of being reported by the sentry who had charge of
that floor.

After this description of the routine of study and drill that was
pursued at the academy, the reader will understand how Don Gordon passed
the most of his school-days during the next four years. How he passed
his vacations it is the purpose of this series of books to relate. It
will be seen also that he was allowed very little time in which to study
up plans for mischief. In fact he did not think of such a thing _yet_,
for he had come there firmly resolved to do his best, and to win a
record for himself that his father should be proud of; but still he did
feel very revengeful while he and his brother were standing in front of
the superintendent몭s desk, listening to the sharp reprimand that was
administered to them for neglecting to extinguish their light at taps.
This was the same 몮good-natured gentleman몯 who had greeted them and
their father so cordially when they visited his camp during the previous
summer, but he did not talk as he did then. He used cutting words, and
laid down the law in tones that had made more than one culprit tremble.
Don did not mind it in the least, for he was used to being scolded by
his teachers; but when he saw how Bert took it to heart, he became so
angry that he could hardly hold his peace.

몮That몭s just the kind of a man that I like to get the advantage of,몯
said he to himself; 몮and if I had a few good fellows to help me, I would
set him and his rules at defiance. I just know I could slip out of my
room and get off the grounds at night; and if I had any place to go to
spend the evening, I would try it and see what he would do about it.몯

Don made this up all out of his own head. He had never heard of such a
thing as running the guard, and he thought of it now simply as a daring
exploit, and one that he would undertake without a moment몭s hesitation
if there were anything to be gained by it. He was in just the right
humor to be manipulated by such fellows as Fisher and Duncan; and into
their hands he fell before he had worn the academy uniform forty-eight
hours. They took him up because they hated him and wanted to get him
into trouble, and it was only by an unexpected stroke of good fortune
that he escaped from their clutches. What he did to arouse their
animosity shall be told further on.




                              CHAPTER III.
                           HAZING A 몮PLEBE.몯


몮We몭ll settle with you at some future time my fine gentleman,몯 said Tom
Fisher, as he and his companions ran toward the academy in obedience to
the call of the bugle. They had spent the hour after breakfast in
strolling about the grounds, discussing the history of one of the new
students, as we have related in the first chapter.

몮All right,몯 replied Don Gordon, winking at his brother, who laid his
finger on his lips and shook his head warningly. 몮Whenever you want to
see me just send me word, and I will be on hand.몯

몮You may get some of that independence whipped out of you before you
have been here many more days,몯 chimed in Clarence Duncan.

몮Who몭ll do it?몯 asked Don, cheerfully.

몮_I_ will,몯 replied Duncan, in savage tones.

몮O, you can몭t. It몭s bred in the bone. But I몭ll tell you one thing멪you
and your partner there,몯 added Don, nodding his head toward Tom Fisher.
몮You want to keep your hands off my brother, or I몭ll make spread-eagles
of the pair of you.몯

몮Well, that beats anything I ever heard of!몯 exclaimed Dick Henderson,
opening his eyes in surprise. 몮You have good cheek to talk of making
몬spread-eagles몭 of such fellows as Fisher and Duncan, haven몭t you, now?몯

몮Do you think so, little one?몯 asked Don. As he said this he patted Dick
on the head in a most patronizing way멪an action on his part that caused
Dick to jump aside and bristle up like a bantam that had been poked with
a stick. 몮Well, you hang around and you will see it done, unless they
take my advice and mind their own business,몯 added Don.

Fisher and Duncan did not have an opportunity to reply to this threat,
for just then they reached the door and found one of the teachers
standing there. They were somewhat behind time, and they were obliged to
hasten to their dormitories and take off their caps and overcoats so
that they could march to their recitation-rooms with their classes. They
looked daggers at Don as they went up the stairs, but he smiled back at
them in the most unconcerned manner possible.

몮I knew he was a tough one the moment I put my eyes on him,몯 said Fisher
that night after drill hours, when he and about fifty other students
were exercising their muscles in the gymnasium. 몮There isn몭t another
fellow in school who can do that.몯

The subject of these remarks was Don Gordon, who had just come out
dressed in neat dark-blue trunks and flesh-colored tights. His arms were
bare to the shoulder, revealing muscles at which the boys around him
gazed in admiration. His first act was to walk up to the nearest swing,
take hold of one of the rings and draw himself up to his chin twice in
succession with one hand.

몮I tell you, Duncan, you had better let him alone,몯 continued Fisher,
still watching Don, who was now going hand over hand up a rope toward
the lofty ceiling.

몮And swallow everything he said to me this morning?몯 exclaimed the
bully.

몮No, I didn몭t mean that,몯 Fisher hastened to reply. 몮Those insulting
remarks must of course be taken back and apologized for; but you can몭t
make him do it alone.몯

몮Just give me the chance, and I몭ll show you whether I can or not,몯
answered Duncan, who was always angry whenever there was any imputation
cast upon his prowess. 몮He has come here intending to set at naught all
the old-time customs of the institution멪haven몭t you noticed how
persistently he refuses to salute everybody but an officer?멪and if we
are willing to stand by and let him do it, I say we are a pack of
cowards. He must be made to come down from his high horse.몯

몮And he shall be,몯 said Fisher, encouragingly. 몮We will attend to that
bootblack몭s case to-night, and the first good chance we get we몭ll take
Mr. Gordon in hand. By the way, Duncan멪멪몯

The two boys drew off on one side and entered into a whispered
consultation, now and then beckoning to one or another of their friends,
until there were a dozen or more students gathered about them. They
conversed earnestly together for a few minutes, and then put on their
clothes and left the gymnasium. Don and Bert Gordon followed them soon
after, and on giving their names to the orderly in the hall, were
admitted to the presence of the superintendent. After they had both
saluted him, Don said:

몮Colonel, we have brought with us a letter of introduction from our
father, addressed to Mr. Packard, who is a relative of one of our
nearest neighbors, and if you have no objections we should like
permission to present it to-night.몯

몮Certainly,몯 said the superintendent, as he picked up a pen and pulled a
sheet of paper toward him. 몮You can go immediately after supper, and I
will write you a pass. You ought to have presented it when you first
came. Why did you put it off so long?몯

몮Why멪I멪you know, sir, that we received a reprimand on the morning
following our arrival here for not putting out our light at ten
o몭clock,몯 faltered Don, 몮and I was afraid you would think we ought to
stay inside the grounds until we had learned to obey the rules.몯

몮Ah, yes,몯 said the superintendent with a smile. 몮I believe I remember
something about that. Well, it did you good, did it not? You haven몭t
been reported since. I hope your record at the end of your course will
be as good as that of your father, who, I must say, was a very exemplary
student. It is true that he did run the guard now and then, the
temptations at Cony Ryan몭s proving rather too strong for him; and when
he was here with you last August, I think he told me that while he was a
member of my school he spent forty-three Saturdays in walking extras;
but, for all that, he was a good boy멪a _very_ good boy. Here몭s your
pass.몯

Don expressed his thanks for the favor, and he and Bert saluted and
retired, lost in wonder.

몮Running the guard!몯 repeated the former, in a loud tone. 몮What does
that mean?몯

몮What몭s walking an extra?몯 said Bert, in the same low voice; 몮and who is
Cony Ryan?몯

몮Here comes Egan; we몭ll ask him,몯 said Don.

The individual referred to was a first-class boy, and the first sergeant
of Don몭s company. When he was on duty he was a soldier all over; but
during the hours of recreation he was as jovial and friendly a fellow as
there was to be found about the academy.

몮Say, sergeant,몯 said Don, not forgetting to salute, 몮what does a cadet
do when he runs the guard?몯

몮What does he do?몯 repeated the sergeant. 몮Why, he spends a good portion
of the next Saturday afternoon in walking an extra to pay for it.몯

몮I mean, how does he run the guard?몯 explained Don.

몮Now, Gordon, isn몭t that just the least bit멪you know,몯 said the
sergeant, laying his finger by the side of his nose and looking very
wise. 몮You surely don몭t expect me to tell you how it is done, do you?
You had better ask Fisher or Duncan, or some of that crowd. They have
had considerable experience in it.몯

몮We want to know what the meaning of the expression is,몯 said Bert.

몮O, that몭s it! Well, when a fellow slips out of his room, gets off the
grounds without being caught, and comes back in the morning in time to
fall in and answer to roll-call, we call that running the guard. By
walking an extra we mean doing additional guard duty. The reason that
Saturday is selected as a day of punishment is because the afternoon is
given over almost entirely to recreation; but those who have been
arrested while attempting to run the guard, or who have been caught in
other acts of disobedience, are not allowed to take advantage of those
hours of recreation, because they have already had their fun.
Understand?몯

Don said he did; and then he inquired who Cony Ryan was, and what he did
to tempt the boys.

몮Cony Ryan!몯 repeated the sergeant, his eyes growing brighter and a
smile overspreading his face, as the memory of old times came back to
him. 몮Why, he is a part of the academy, and I have seen the day when I
thought we could not possibly get along without him. He keeps a neat
little house down by the big pond, where he serves up the best pancakes
_I_ ever ate. His mince and pumpkin pies top the heap; and as for his
maple molasses멪ah!몯

The sergeant walked off, smacking his lips, and Don and Bert kept on up
the stairs.

몮I rather think Egan has been there,몯 observed the latter.

몮I know he has,몯 replied Don, 몮and the taste of that maple syrup clings
to his palate yet.몯

On entering their room Don threw himself into a chair, stretched his
legs out before him, buried his hands in his pockets, and gazed down at
the floor in a brown study; while Bert leaned his elbows on the table,
rested his chin on his hands, and looked at him. Presently Don threw
back his head and laughed so loudly and heartily that his brother was
obliged to laugh too.

몮I never dreamed of such a thing,몯 said Bert, who knew what was passing
in Don몭s mind.

몮No more did I. Just think how that dignified father of ours must have
looked running the guard and standing punishment for it afterward! He
took good care not to say a word to us about it, didn몭t he? I say,
Bert,몯 exclaimed Don, suddenly, and then he as suddenly paused.

몮Don몭t you do it,몯 said Bert, earnestly. 몮You will be certain to get
yourself into trouble by it.몯

몮If I did, I should be perfectly willing to take the consequences. But
father couldn몭t haul me over the coals for it, could he?몯

몮If father were here now, he wouldn몭t think of doing such things.몯

몮Neither would I if I were a man.몯

몮But you won몭t go to Cony Ryan몭s, will you?몯 pleaded Bert.

몮Of course not. Don몭t borrow any trouble on that score. I promised
mother that I would behave myself, and I am going to do it. But I should
like to taste those pies and pancakes, all the same,몯 added Don, to
himself.

That evening, after supper, Don and Bert showed their pass to the sentry
at the gate, and set out to pay their long deferred visit to Mr.
Packard. Why was it that they did not think to read that pass when it
was given to them? If they had, they might have saved themselves from
something disagreeable that afterward happened. They passed a very
pleasant evening at Mr. Packard몭s house, and at half-past ten they took
leave of their new friends and started for the academy.

As they were walking briskly along the road that ran around one end of
the big pond, they heard an indistinct murmur of voices, and presently
saw a crowd of boys, who were walking in a compact body, pass across the
road in front of them, and direct their course toward the middle of the
pond. They thought at first that it was a skating party; but as they did
not stop to put on their skates, Don and Bert became interested in their
movements and halted to observe them. Just then a voice, speaking in
pleading accents, came to their ears.

몮Don몭t do it, boys멪please don몭t,몯 it said, in piteous tones. 몮I wouldn몭t
mind it so much if I could stand it, but I solemnly assure you that I
can몭t. I have had one attack of pneumonia this winter that was brought
on by exposure, and ducking me in this icy water will surely give me
another.몯

몮No it won몭t,몯 replied another voice that Don knew belonged to Tom
Fisher. 몮This is a time-honored custom, and we are not going to give it
up; are we, boys?몯

몮Not much,몯 answered the others, in concert.

몮Our fathers were hazed when they went to this school; they, in turn,
hazed others, and we couldn몭t think of disgracing them by refusing to
follow in their footsteps,몯 continued Tom. 몮Everyone of the fellows you
see around you멪myself among the rest멪has been hazed in one way or
another; and are you, a New York boot-black, any better than we are?몯

몮Hurry him on and pitch him in,몯 said Clarence Duncan, in his deep base
tones. 몮Wash some of the black out of him.몯

몮Yes, in with him,몯 piped little Dick Henderson.

몮Well, boys, if you must do it to preserve your honor, let me take my
clothes off first,몯 said the pleading voice. 몮This is the only suit I
have in the world, and if I get it wet I shall freeze to death, for I
have no fire in my room to dry it by.몯

몮Then go to bed,몯 was the rough rejoinder.

몮Why, what in the world are those fellows going to do?몯 said Bert, who
had listened in great amazement to this conversation, every word of
which came distinctly to the ears of himself and his brother. 몮I am
afraid they are going to do something to somebody.몯

몮Have you just found it out?몯 exclaimed Don, who now discovered that the
boys were making their way toward a hole that had been previously cut in
the ice. 몮A party of students, led by Fisher and Duncan, are going to
haze a Plebe by ducking him in the pond. Now I shall have a word or two
to say about that. They are the same fellows who blocked up our path
this morning and wouldn몭t let us go by. You know they promised to settle
with me some day for showing so much 몬independence,몭 as they called it,
and they might as well do it now as any other time.몯

몮O Don, mind what you are about,몯 cried Bert.

몮I will. I몭ll black the eyes of some of them before they shall stick
that boy through the ice. Why, Bert, what would father say to me if he
should hear that I stood by and witnessed such a proceeding without
lifting a hand to prevent it? He would tell me I wasn몭t worthy of the
name I bear.몯

No one who knew the temper of the academy boys, and the tenacity with
which they clung to the 몮time-honored customs몯 of the institution to
which they belonged, would have thought Don Gordon a coward if he had
taken to his heels and made the best of his way to his room. He knew
very well that if he attempted to interfere with Tom and his crowd, he
stood a good chance of being ducked himself; but the knowledge of this
fact did not deter him from promptly carrying out the plans he had
resolved upon. It would have been bad enough, he told himself, if the
students had selected as a victim a boy who had an extra suit of
clothes, a change of linen to put on, and a fire to warm himself by
after his cold bath; but to pitch upon one who had none of these
comforts, and who ran the risk of being thrown into a dangerous illness
by the folly of his tormentors, was, in his estimation, a most cowardly
act, and one that could not be too severely punished.

몮Bert, you had better stay here where you will be safe,몯 said Don.

몮I몭ll not do it,몯 was the prompt reply. 몮If you are going into danger, I
am going in too.몯

Don, knowing that it would be of no use to argue the matter, ran out on
the ice, and when he came up with the crowd his coats were off, and he
was in his shirt-sleeves. Fisher and his companions stopped when they
heard the sound of his approaching footsteps, and some of them acted as
if they wanted to run away; but when they discovered that Don and Bert
were alone, they waited for them to come nearer, thinking that perhaps
they were a couple of the members of their own class who wanted to join
in the sport. When they saw Don pull off his overcoat, however, their
eyes were opened.

몮Here comes an intruder, boys,몯 exclaimed one of the students, 몮and
judging by the way he acts, he is getting ready for a rumpus.몯

몮Let him get ready,몯 said Fisher. 몮There are a dozen of us. If he turns
out to be a Plebe, we몭ll stick him in too. The more the merrier, you
know. Who comes there?몯 he added, raising his voice.

몮A peace-maker,몯 replied Don, throwing his coats on the ice.

몮Yes, you look like it,몯 sneered Clarence Duncan. 몮If that is so, what
did you pull your duds off for?몯

몮Because I did not know how you would receive my overtures, and I
thought it the part of wisdom to be prepared for any emergency,몯
answered Don.

So saying, he walked boldly into the crowd, which gave way right and
left as he advanced, and took his stand by the side of the prisoner, who
was firmly held by two of the largest and strongest students, while two
others stood close behind him, in readiness to lend their assistance in
case he made any attempt at escape. Although Don had never exchanged a
word with the boy, he knew him at once, for they belonged to the same
company. It was the new student whose presence, if we are to believe
Fisher and his friends, was a disgrace to the academy and everybody
belonging to it. He wore the same thin clothes in which he had shivered
as he walked up the path that morning, and the keen wind that swept
across the icy surface of the big pond must have chilled him to the very
marrow. He had no muffler about his face nor any gloves on his hands,
which he held clasped one within the other, as if they were very cold.
Don looked at him and then at the comfortably clad boys who were
standing around, and his blood, which was none of the coolest at any
time, boiled with indignation.

몮You are a pack of contemptible cowards,몯 said he, pulling off his
gloves and slamming them down on the ice.

몮Why, bless our royal heart, it몭s the Planter!몯 exclaimed Tom Fisher,
who now, for the first time, recognized the intruder. 몮Here몭s luck,
boys. Grab hold of him, some of you, and we몭ll wash him too.몯

몮If that몭s the Planter, this must be his brother,몯 said Dick Henderson.

몮Why, so it is,몯 said Fisher, after he had taken a sharp look into
Bert몭s face. 몮Here몭s more luck. Take hold of him too, boys; and since
they have had the assurance to push themselves in among us without being
asked, we will give them the post of honor. We몭ll duck them first.몯

In obedience to these orders three or four pairs of hands were laid upon
Bert몭s arms; but when the rest of the crowd moved forward to lay hold of
Don, Duncan stepped up and stopped them.

몮Stand back, all of you,몯 said he. 몮I want to have a little talk with
this fellow before he is put into that air-hole. Gordon, you insulted me
this morning in the presence of my friends, and I want you to apologize
for it at once. If you don몭t do it, I will give you a thrashing right
here on this ice that you won몭t get over for a month.몯

몮How did I insult you?몯 asked Don, and the bully was somewhat surprised
to see that he did not appear to be at all alarmed.

몮You said you would make a spread-eagle of me. Now, which will you do,
apologize or fight?몯

몮Well, if it몭s all the same to you, I몭ll fight.몯

Duncan was fairly staggered by this reply. Remembering the exhibition of
strength he had witnessed in the gymnasium that afternoon, he had no
desire to come to blows with the stalwart youth who stood before him. He
had hoped to frighten an apology from Don, and when he found that he
could not do it, he wished he had not been in such haste to make
overtures of battle to him. But it was too late to think of that now,
for his reputation was at stake. Besides he did not believe that his
friend Fisher would stand by and see him worsted.

몮You need have no fear of these fellows who are standing around,몯 said
Duncan, who wanted to put off the critical moment as long as he could.
몮They will not double-team on you.몯

몮If they do they will take the consequences,몯 said Don, confidently. 몮I
think myself that they had better keep their distance.몯

These bold words astonished everybody.

몮Why I believe he thinks he can whip the whole crowd,몯 said Henderson,
who was one of the four who were holding fast to Bert몭s arms. Bert was a
little fellow, like himself, and consequently Dick was not very much
afraid of him.

몮Come on,몯 said Don, impatiently. 몮I am getting cold standing here in my
shirt-sleeves. Give me a little exercise to warm me up. Remember I
wasn몭t born as near the Arctic Circle as you fellows were, and for that
reason I can몭t stand the cold as well. Hurry up, somebody멪_anybody_ who
thinks he was insulted by the words I uttered this morning.몯

Driven almost to desperation by this challenge, which he knew was
addressed to himself, and which seemed to imply that his prospective
antagonist placed a very low estimate upon his powers, Duncan pulled off
both his coats, assumed a threatening attitude and advanced toward Don,
who extended his hand in the most friendly manner. The bully, believing
that Don wanted to parley with him, took the proffered hand in his own,
and in a second more arose in the air as if an exceedingly strong spring
had suddenly uncoiled itself under his feet. When he came down again he
measured his full length on the ice, landing in such dangerous proximity
to the hole that had been cut for the poor student몭s benefit, that his
uniform cap fell into it.

Everybody was struck motionless and dumb with amazement. The bully was
so bewildered that he did not get upon his feet again immediately, and
the poor student forgot to shiver.

[Illustration: DUNCAN몭S UNEXPECTED OVERTHROW.]




                              CHAPTER IV.
                        THE NEW YORK BOOT-BLACK.


몮Take your hands off those boys,몯 said Don, who was in just the right
humor to make a scattering among Fisher몭s crowd of friends. 몮Release
them both and do it at once, or I will pitch the last one of you into
that hole before you can say 몬General Jackson몭 with your mouths open.
Come over here, Bert.몯

He stepped up and took the prisoner by the arm, and his four guards
surrendered him without a word of protest. The magical manner in which
Don had floored the biggest bully in school, before whom no boy in
Bridgeport had ever been able to stand for a minute, either with
boxing-gloves or bare fists, and the ease with which he had done it,
astounded them. They had never seen anything like it before, and there
was something very mysterious in it. Did not this backwoodsman have
other equally bewildering tactics at his command which he could bring
into play if he were crowded upon? Probably he had, and so the best
thing they could do was to let him alone.

몮Your name is Sam Arkwright, is it not?몯 said Don, taking one of the
boy몭s blue-cold hands in both his own warm ones. 몮I thought I had heard
you answer to that name at roll-call. I am a plebe too, and so we몭ll
stand together. Put on these gloves and come with me. You will freeze if
you stay here any longer. As for you,몯 he added, waving his hand toward
the students to show that he included them all in the remarks he was
about to make, 몮you are a pack of cowards, and I can whip the best man
among you right here and _now_. Pick him out and let me take a look at
him.몯

몮I am good for the best of them if they will come one at a time,몯 said
Sam. 몮But I give in to a dozen when they all jump on me at once.몯

몮I will leave that challenge open,몯 said Don, as he led Sam away. 몮You
know where my room is, and any little notes you may choose to shove
under my door will receive prompt attention.몯

Tom and his crowd did not speak; they had not yet recovered from their
amazement. They stood gazing after the rescued boy and his champion
until they disappeared in the darkness, and then they turned and looked
at one another.

몮I declare, Duncan,몯 exclaimed Tom Fisher, who was the first to speak.
몮You몭ve met your master at last, have you not?몯

The defeated bully growled out something in reply, but his friends could
not understand what it was. Like every boy who prides himself upon his
strength and skill, he did not like to acknowledge that he had been
beaten.

몮Did he hurt you?몯 asked one of the students. 몮I noticed that you didn몭t
get up right away.몯

몮How in the name of all that몭s wonderful did he do it?몯 inquired
another. 몮I didn몭t see him clinch or strike you.몯

몮He did neither,몯 replied Duncan, 몮and that몭s just what bangs me. I am
willing to swear that he did not touch me anywhere except on the hand,
and he took hold of that just as though he wanted to give it a friendly
shake. It몭s a trick of some kind멪a boss one, too멪and I will give him my
next quarter몭s spending money if he will teach it to me.몯

몮Humph!몯 exclaimed Tom Fisher. 몮You needn몭t expect to him to do that. He
doesn몭t look to me to be such a fool. You and he may come together in
earnest some day멪if you don몭t, he will be about the only boy you haven몭t
had a fight with since you have been a student at this academy멪and then
you will probably find out what his tricks are.몯

몮He didn몭t hurt me at all,몯 continued Clarence; 몮but he could if he had
been so disposed. If he had used a little more exertion he could have
thrown me into that air-hole; and if I had happened to come up under the
ice멪ugh!몯 exclaimed Clarence, shivering all over as he looked down into
the dark water.

몮Is there no way in which we can get even with him?몯 asked Fisher.

몮_Is_ there!몯 replied Clarence, angrily. 몮Do you suppose that I am going
to submit tamely to an insult like that? We몭ll make a way to get even
with him. Things have come to a pretty pass if a plebe is going to be
allowed to come here and run this school to suit himself.몯

The mere reference to such an unheard-of thing was enough to raise the
ire of Tom Fisher and all his companions, who with one voice declared
that the Planter, having presumed to lay violent hands on an upper-class
boy, and to set at defiance one of the old-established customs of the
academy, must be made to suffer the consequences. They held a long and
earnest consultation there on the ice, and Fisher and Duncan, who were
fruitful in expedients, soon hit upon a plan which promised, if
skillfully managed, to bring Sam Arkwright몭s champion into serious
trouble. It was a most dangerous plan, because it was to be carried out
under the guise of friendship.

몮That몭s the only way to do it, fellows, you may depend upon it,몯 said
Duncan, after their scheme had been thoroughly discussed. 몮We must bring
him into trouble with the faculty, and let them do the hazing, for we
couldn몭t do it if we wanted to. I was nothing but a child in his grasp,
and, to tell the honest truth, I have no desire to face him again.몯

몮I hope we shall succeed,몯 said Fisher. 몮But if the Planter turns out to
be one of those good little boys who never do anything wrong, then
what?몯

If Tom had only known it, he need not have bothered his head on this
point. Unfortunately for Don, something happened that very night which
made it comparatively easy for the conspirators to carry out the plans
they had formed regarding him.

Meanwhile Don and Bert were walking briskly toward the academy in
company with the rescued boy, who was somewhat protected from the keen
wind by Bert몭s muffler, which the latter had wrapped about his neck, and
by Don몭s gloves which he wore upon his hands. He was lost in admiration
of his new friend몭s prowess, and complimented him in the best language
he could command.

몮Are you an Irishman, sir?몯 Sam asked, at length.

몮Look here,몯 answered Don, 몮my name is Gordon멪there몭s no 몬sir몭 about it.
No, I am not an Irishman. I am an American, I am proud to say; but I
understand the Irish 몬hand and foot몭 well enough to give it to such
fellows as that Clarence Duncan. I can throw a man weighing two hundred
pounds in that way if he will let me take hold of his hand.몯

몮It was well done,몯 said Sam. 몮I never saw it done better.몯

몮I learned it of one of my father몭s hired men멪a discharged Union soldier
who came to our plantation penniless and hungry, and asked for work,몯
said Don. 몮I always make it a point to pick up any little thing of that
kind that happens to fall in my way. It may come handy some day, you
know.몯

Perhaps you will now understand how Don had managed to throw the bully
of the school so easily; but if you do not, we can only say that it
cannot be described on paper so that you can gain even a faint idea of
it. If you want to know just how it was done, the easiest way to learn
is to ask some Irishman멪the fresher he is from the old sod the better멪to
give you a practical illustration of the 몮hand and foot.몯 Simply give
him your hand, and if his feelings toward you are friendly, he will send
you flying through the air without hurting you in the least; but if he
is not friendly, we would not advise you to go to him for information,
for he can turn you heels up in an instant, and land you on your head
with force enough to knock all your brains into your boots. Don had
become so expert in this novel way of wrestling, and so prone to put it
into practice at every opportunity, that none of the boys about Rochdale
could be induced to shake hands with him.

몮How did you ever happen to find your way to this school!몯 inquired Don,
after Sam had exhausted his vocabulary in praising his new friend몭s
skill as a wrestler. 몮Were you really a New York boot-black?몯

몮Yes, I was,몯 answered Sam, hesitatingly.

몮It is nothing to be ashamed of,몯 said Bert, who thought from the way
Sam spoke that he did not like to confess that he had once occupied so
lowly a position in the world.

몮Of course not,몯 Don hastened to add. 몮Any honest work is honorable.
Your presence here proves that you didn몭t want to remain a boot-black
all your days.몯

몮No, I didn몭t. I was ambitious to be something better,몯 said Sam, who
then went on to give Don and his brother a short history of his life. He
said that his father, who followed the sea for a livelihood, had gone
down with his vessel during a terrific storm off Cape Hatteras; that his
mother had survived him but a few months; and that after her death a
grasping landlord had seized all the household furniture as security for
the rent that was due and unpaid, turning him (Sam) into the streets to
shift for himself. He spent the days in roaming about the city, looking
in vain for work, and his nights in a lumber-yard to which he had been
invited by a friendly boot-black, who found free lodgings there every
night, and who, seeing Sam몭s forlorn condition, gave him a plate of soup
to eat and furnished him with a plank to sleep on. Finding that work was
not to be had, Sam at last ran in debt for a boot-black몭s 몮kit,몯 which
he procured from one of the fraternity who had saved money enough to
open a corner peanut stand, and after a score or more of battles with
boys whose 몮claims몯 he unwittingly 몮jumped,몯 he succeeded in
establishing himself in front of a popular hotel in the city, where he
was to be found early and late. It was there he met the Superintendent
of the Bridgeport Military Academy, who patronized him twice every day,
never failing to give him a quarter for each 몮shine,몯 or to spend a few
minutes in conversation, with him after the boy몭s work was completed.

From the day he was six years old up to the time his father was lost at
sea, Sam attended the district school regularly; and as he was a very
faithful student, and tried hard to learn, he knew more about books than
boys of his age generally do. He felt that he was out of place among the
ragged, ignorant little gamins with whom he was daily and hourly thrown
in contact, and they, realizing that he was not one of them, and that he
believed himself to be fitted for something better than the life of a
boot-black, tormented him in every conceivable way. He was so often
called upon to protect his brush and his box of blacking from the young
rowdies who would have despoiled him of them, that he became an adept at
fighting, and it is probable that he would have opened the eyes of Tom
Fisher and his crowd, had they not pounced upon him while he was asleep,
and overpowered him before he could raise a hand to defend himself.

몮I am sure I don몭t know what it was that made the Professor take a
liking to me,몯 said Sam in conclusion, 몮but it was something; and when
he asked me if I wouldn몭t like to quit that miserable business and go to
school and learn to be a civil or a mining engineer, I tell you it
almost took my breath away. I jumped at the chance. I gave my kit to a
boy who was too poor to buy one, and came out here; and I am very sorry
for it. The fellows don몭t want me here, and they didn몭t want me in New
York, either. I hope I shall some day find a place where I shall not be
in everybody몭s way.몯

몮Don몭t get down-hearted,몯 said Don, taking one of his hands out of his
pocket long enough to give Sam an encouraging slap on the back. 몮Of
course your tuition is free?몯

몮Yes, everything is furnished me. If it wasn몭t I couldn몭t stay here, for
I have no money to speak of. The boys in New York badgered me so, and
ran such heavy opposition to me that I couldn몭t earn enough to buy a
warm suit of clothes.몯

몮You will have an abundance of them in a day or two,몯 said Don, 몮for our
uniforms will be along by that time. You couldn몭t get an education on
better terms than the Professor offers it to you, could you? And so long
as he is willing that you should stay here, you can well afford to let
the fellows grumble to their hearts몭 content. Show the Professor that
you appreciate his kindness by doing your duty like a man, and look to
me for help whenever you get into trouble. Now the next thing is
something else,몯 added Don, as he and his companions came to a halt in
front of the high picket-fence which inclosed the academy grounds.
몮Where몭s your room, Sam?몯

몮I haven몭t any yet. I sleep in the attic. The rooms on the floor
occupied by our class are all taken except one. That has been used as a
store-room, and as soon as it is cleared out I am to have it for my
own.몯

몮Well, do you want the teachers to know anything about this night몭s
work?몯

몮Of course not,몯 returned Sam, who had all a decent boy몭s horror of
tale-bearing.

몮Because, if you do,몯 continued Don, 몮you can walk up to one of the
guards, let him report you for being outside the grounds without a pass,
and when you are hauled over the coals for it, you can say that you were
taken out against your will.몯

몮But I don몭t want to say that,몯 answered Sam, quickly. 몮It would bring
Tom and the rest into trouble. I have nothing against them, and I should
be glad to be friends with them if they would only let me.몯

몮You몭ll do to tie to,몯 said Don, approvingly. 몮Bert and I have a pass
that will see us through all right; but what are you going to do? Do you
think you can make your way to the attic without being seen by any of
the sentries or floor guards?몯

몮Tom and his crowd brought me out without attracting the attention of
any of them, and I don몭t see why I can몭t get back without being caught.
At any rate I shall try my best. Good-night. I hope that neither of you
will ever stand in need of such aid as you have rendered me to-night;
but if you do, you may count on me every time.몯

So saying Sam moved away in one direction, closely examining all the
pickets on the fence as he went, and Don and Bert walked off in the
other. When the latter arrived within sight of the main gate they were
somewhat surprised to see that it was closed. The sound of their
footsteps on the frosty snow quickly attracted the attention of the
alert sentry, who came out of his box and demanded to know who they were
and what they were doing there at that time of night.

몮We belong to this academy,몯 replied Don, 몮and have a pass from the
superintendent.몯

몮Corporal of the guard No. 4,몯 yelled the sentry; and the call was
caught up and repeated by another sentinel who stood at the farther end
of the academy, and finally reached the ears of the corporal, who was
toasting his shins in front of a warm fire in the guard-room.

몮What do you want the corporal for? Here몭s our pass,몯 said Don; and
taking the paper in question from his pocket he thrust it between the
bars of the gate.

Still the sentry made no reply, nor did he seem to know that Don had
spoken to him. He brought his musket to a 몮support,몯 and paced back and
forth on the other side of the gate with slow and dignified steps. Don
muttered something under his breath, and Bert believing that he was
grumbling at the sentry for being so uncivil, laid his hand on his
brother몭s arm and said, in a low tone멪

몮Don몭t be angry with him. Perhaps he is not allowed to talk while he is
on duty.몯

Don said nothing. He began to believe that he and Bert had unwittingly
got themselves into trouble again, and when the corporal came up, he
found that he had not been mistaken.

몮What몭s the matter here?몯 demanded the officer.

몮There are a couple of plebes out there who want to come in,몯 was the
sentry몭s reply.

몮Who are you?몯 said the corporal, peering through the pickets at the two
brothers.

Don gave him their names; whereupon the corporal took a key down from a
nail in the sentry몭s box, and after unlocking the gate told the boys to
come in. They obeyed, and the officer having returned the key to its
place drew a note-book from his pocket and wrote something in it.
몮That몭s all right,몯 said he, as he closed the book and put it back in
his pocket.

몮Have we done anything wrong?몯 inquired Bert, in anxious tones.

몮You will find that out to-morrow,몯 was the corporal몭s very
unsatisfactory answer.

몮Why can몭t you give a civil reply to a civil question?몯 demanded Don,
impatiently. 몮We had liberty to go outside the grounds for the evening,
and here몭s the pass that says so.몯

몮I don몭t want to see it,몯 said the corporal, as he buttoned his overcoat
and drew the cape over his head. 몮I know just how it reads. Come on.몯

몮Where are you going to take us?몯 asked Bert, while visions of the
gloomy guard-house danced before his eyes.

몮To the officer of the day, of course.몯

몮And what will he do with us?몯

몮That몭s for him to tell. Come on. It몭s too cold to stand here any
longer.몯

Don and Bert fell in behind the corporal, who led the way to the
guard-room, and ushered them into a little office where the officer of
the day멪a stern old Prussian soldier who wore a medal he had won by his
gallantry on the field of battle while serving under Prince Frederick
Charles멪sat reading a newspaper. When the non-commissioned officer
entered with his prisoners he laid the paper down and took off his
spectacles.

몮Vel, gorporal,몯 said he, in a pompous tone, 몮vat ish the drouble mit
dem gadets?몯

몮They have overstayed their time, sir,몯 said the corporal.

몮Vot for you do dot?몯 demanded the officer of the day, turning fiercely
upon the culprits. 몮Vot for you not come in, ha?몯

몮We were not aware that we had overstayed our time, sir,몯 answered Don.
몮If we had known that we were expected to return at a certain hour, we
should have been here. We had a pass for the evening, and there it is.몯

몮Dot몭s no good after daps,몯 said the officer of the day, turning away
his head and waving his hand in the air to indicate that he did not care
to look at the paper which Don presented for his inspection.

몮I assure you, sir, that it was a mistake on our part,몯 said Bert.

But the officer of the day declared, in his broken English and with many
gesticulations, that such things as mistakes were not recognized in that
academy멪that Don and his brother had violated the regulations and might
make up their minds to be punished accordingly. Then he ordered them to
their quarters, while the corporal went back to his seat by the stove.

몮He didn몭t say that we were in arrest, did he?몯 said Don, as he and Bert
ascended the stairs, at the top of which they met the sentry who had
charge of that floor, standing with his note-book in his hand.

몮Your names, please,몯 said he, pleasantly.

몮The corporal of the guard has them, and so has the officer of the day,몯
answered Don.

몮And I must have them, too,몯 returned the sentry, holding his pencil
poised, in the air.

Don gave the required information in rather a sullen tone, and closed
the door of his dormitory behind him with no gentle hand. As soon as
Bert had struck a light he drew the pass from his pocket and read as
follows:

몮Guards and patrols will pass privates Donald and Hubert Gordon until
half-past nine o몭clock this evening.몯

Then he looked at his watch and saw that it lacked only a quarter of
eleven. Allowing fifteen minutes for their interviews with the corporal
and the officer of the day, they had overstayed their time just an hour.
Bert was very penitent, but Don was inclined to be rebellious.




                               CHAPTER V.
                      DON AND BERT HAVE VISITORS.


몮I wonder if a fellow can make a move in any direction without breaking
some of the numerous rules of this school and being reported for it,몯
said Don, throwing his overcoat and cap spitefully down upon the bed. 몮I
declare, Bert멪멪몯

Just then the door opened and the sentry thrust his head into the room.
몮Put out that light, Plebe,몯 said he. 몮Two reports in one night make a
tolerably bad showing, the first thing you know.몯

몮Catch hold of that gas-fixture and jerk it out of the wall,몯 exclaimed
Don, as Bert hastened to obey the sentry몭s order. 몮That makes twice it
has got us into trouble.몯

몮Oh, I wouldn몭t do that,몯 said the sentry, with a laugh. 몮You had better
read the rules and regulations until you have them firmly fixed in your
mind, and then, if you see fit to obey them to the very letter, you will
have plain sailing.몯

Don undressed in the dark and tumbled into bed, telling himself the
while that he didn몭t care a snap of his finger for the rules and
regulations. He had not purposely violated any of them, and yet he had
been severely reprimanded, and was yet to be punished as though he had
been willfully disobedient.

몮When the leopard can change his spots and the Ethiopian his skin, I
shall believe that there is some hope for me,몯 said Don to himself, as
he arranged his pillow and prepared to go to sleep. 몮But there doesn몭t
seem to be much now, for the harder I try to be good the more rows I get
into. I would give something to know how Tom Fisher and his crowd came
out, and whether or not Sam succeeded in getting back to his attic
without being seen by the guards.몯

Bert arose the next morning, after an almost sleepless night, full of
apprehension and trembling for fear of the punishment that was to be
visited upon him, while Don몭s face wore a defiant expression. He had
slept the sleep of the healthy, and awoke refreshed and fully prepared
to meet anything that might be in store for him. Greatly to his surprise
and Bert몭s, nothing was said to them regarding what had taken place the
night before. They found opportunity to exchange a few words with Sam
Arkwright, who gleefully informed them that everything was all right,
and that no one was the wiser for the assault that had been made upon
him by the third-class boys, and caught a momentary glimpse of Fisher
and Duncan, both of whom smiled and saluted in the most courteous
manner. Don did not know what this meant, but it was not long before he
found out.

That afternoon all the members of the fourth class were ordered to the
drill-room, where they found a quartermaster-sergeant, the captain of
their company, and one of the teachers, who served out to them their new
uniforms, which they were told to put on at once. When ranks were
broken, Don and Bert hastened to their dormitory, and had just completed
the work of exchanging their citizen몭s clothes for their natty suits of
cadet gray, when there came a knock at the door. Bert몭s heart seemed to
stop beating.

몮That must be the orderly,몯 said he, in an excited whisper.몮 If it is,
we shall soon know what is going to become of us.몯

몮Well, we might as well know one time as another,몯 said Don, doggedly.
몮I hope it is the orderly, for I have been kept in suspense long
enough.몯

Bert opened the door, when who should appear on the threshold but Tom
Fisher and Clarence Duncan. The former extended his hand to Bert, who
took it after a little hesitation, while Clarence entered the room and
greeted Don in the same friendly way.

몮Gordon,몯 said Clarence, as Don몭s sinewy fingers closed about his own,
몮you몭re a brick. We came here to tell you and your brother that we and
the rest of the fellows are sorry for what happened last night, and that
we want to be friends with you.몯

몮Nothing would suit me better,몯 answered Don.

몮We have had time to consider the matter,몯 said Fisher, seating himself
on Bert몭s bed and depositing his cap on the table, 몮and we are all very
glad that you didn몭t let us duck that Plebe. It would have been a mean
piece of business to haze him in that way, seeing that he didn몭t have a
suit of dry clothes to put on.몯

몮Or a fire to warm himself by,몯 chimed in Bert, with some indignation in
his tones. 몮Why, I never heard of such a thing. It would have been the
death of him.몯

몮It was cold, wasn몭t it?몯 said Clarence. 몮Well, we didn몭t haze him, and,
as Tom says, we are all glad of it. But, I say, you make nobby-looking
soldiers, you two. Did you get in last night all right?몯

몮We got in twice,몯 answered Don, ruefully. 몮We got inside the grounds,
and we got into trouble.몯

몮How was that? Didn몭t you have a pass?몯

몮Yes; but it was only good until half-past nine, and we stayed out until
half-past ten.몯

몮Oh! ah. Well, that몭s nothing when you get used to it, is it, Fisher?몯
said Clarence.

몮Nothing at all,몯 replied Tom. 몮It has been a very common thing with me,
and now I never think of asking for a pass. I go when I please and come
back when I feel like it.몯

몮What do you suppose they will do with us?몯 asked Bert, who was anxious
to have that point settled as soon as possible.

몮Let me see,몯 said Clarence, thoughtfully. 몮Who was officer of the day
yesterday?몯

몮I don몭t know his name,몯 answered Don, 몮but he was the same one who
instructs our class in mathematics, an old gentleman with gold
spectacles, and a medal of some kind on his breast.몯

몮Oh, that was Dutchy,몯 said Fisher, in a tone of contempt. 몮He몭s our
fencing-master also. Well, he will make the case against you as black as
he can, and if he were the one to say how you should be punished, I tell
you you would have a lively time of it, for he is a regular martinet.
The President is a very strict disciplinarian, but he hasn몭t yet
forgotten that he was once a boy himself, and he will probably be easy
with you.몯

몮But what will he do?몯 insisted Bert. 몮That몭s what Don and I want to
know. And if he is going to punish us at all, why doesn몭t he say so?몯

몮Because the proper time has not yet arrived. Wait until dress-parade
comes off to-night, and then you will find out all about it, for it will
be published in general orders.몯

몮Before the whole school?몯 cried Bert.

몮Of course,몯 answered Clarence.

Bert grew very red in the face, and looked at Don, who, in turn, stared
hard at Bert.

몮It is nothing to worry over,몯 said Fisher. 몮Some of the best fellows in
school have been gated and made to walk extras on Saturday afternoons
with packed knapsacks, and that is all the punishment you will receive.몯

몮What do you mean by 몬gated몭?몯 asked Don.

몮What is a 몬packed knapsack?몯 inquired Bert.

몮Why, when a fellow is gated he is confined inside the grounds, and not
allowed to go out under any circumstances,몯 replied Clarence.

몮But he can go out all the same if he feels like it,몯 said Fisher, with
a laugh. 몮I never knew a fellow to stay inside the grounds simply
because he was gated, unless he was one of those milk and water boys who
hadn몭t spirit enough to say that his soul was his own.몯

몮How can he get out?몯 asked Don.

몮He can run the guards. Clarence and I have done it many a time.몯

몮Were you never caught at it?몯 inquired Bert.

몮Once or twice, but that was owing to our own carelessness. It is an
easy thing to do when the right kind of fellows are on duty, and really
exciting when the posts are held by such boys as Blake and Walker, and
others of that sort. They몭re a mean set. They are always on the watch
for a chance to report somebody, because they believe that that is the
way to gain the good-will of the teachers.몯

몮And a packed knapsack,몯 continued Clarence, 몮is one with something
heavy in it, such as bricks or paving-stones. When you are called upon
to walk an extra, you have to pace up and down your beat for four hours
with that knapsack on your back and a musket on your shoulder.몯

몮That can몭t be very pleasant,몯 observed Don.

몮Well, I am free to confess that it isn몭t,몯 returned Clarence, 몮and it
is all owing to the way the thing is managed. If they would let us
perform the extra duty while the rest of the boys were drilling, or
while the class in geometry was reciting, I should not mind it in the
least. But you see they won몭t do that. We have to work hard all the
week, and walk our extras on Saturday afternoons during the hours that
are given to the good little boys for cricket, ball-playing, fishing,
target-shooting and recreations of that sort.몯

몮But overstaying our time was not the only offence of which we were
guilty last night,몯 said Don, after a moment몭s pause. 몮When we reached
our room we struck a light, and I suppose we shall be reported for
that.몯

몮Of course you will,몯 said Fisher. 몮You had no business to have a light
in your room after taps.몯

몮But we didn몭t think,몯 said Bert. 몮And, besides, we wanted to read our
pass, so that we might know just what we had done that was wrong.몯

몮No odds,몯 exclaimed Clarence. 몮No excuse will be accepted. You will
probably be gated for a month.몯

몮But you need not submit to the restriction of your liberty unless you
feel like it,몯 chimed in Fisher. 몮Do as all the best fellows in school
do멪run the guard, and have a good time in spite of the teachers.몯

몮Oh, we몭ll never do that,몯 said Bert, quickly. 몮Will we, Don? That would
only make a bad matter worse.몯

Don looked down at the floor, but said nothing. He always grew restive
under restraint, and having been allowed when at home to go and come as
he pleased, he could not bear the thought of being confined within
bounds. If Fisher and Duncan had known what he was thinking about just
then, they would have said that the success of the plans they had formed
the night before was a foregone conclusion.

몮Well, Gordon,몯 said Tom, at length, 몮everything is all square between
us, I hope.몯

몮Certainly it is, so far as I am concerned,몯 answered Don. 몮And I know
that Arkwright does not bear you any ill-will, for he said so. You
fellows ought to make matters straight with him, for he is true blue. He
took a good deal of pains to work his way back to the attic without
being seen, for he didn몭t want the teachers to know what you had done.몯

몮We몭ll see him and have a talk with him,몯 said Tom, as he arose from the
bed and picked up his cap. 몮Perhaps we had better go, Clarence. You know
what will happen to us if we fail in our logic to-morrow. What do you
think of the prospect?몯 he added, as soon as he and his crony had
reached their own dormitory and closed the door behind them. 몮Will he
bite?몯

몮I am sure of it,몯 was Duncan몭s confident reply. 몮He is a fellow who
doesn몭t like to be held with too tight a rein멪I can see that plainly
enough; but Bert is a different sort of boy.몯

몮What do we care for Bert?몯 exclaimed Tom. 몮Don is the one we are
after.몯

몮I know that, and I know, too, that we could get him very easily if his
brother were out of the way. These little spooneys sometimes exert a
good deal of influence over their big brothers, and if he sets his face
against us and our plans, our cake will be turned into dough in short
order.몯

몮We must see to it that Don doesn몭t listen to him,몯 said Tom. 몮We have
done all we can do to-day. We have given him an idea, and now we will
let him chew on it for a while. We mustn몭t appear to be too eager, you
know, for if we give him the least reason to suspect that we are putting
up a job on him, it is my opinion that he will prove an unpleasant
fellow to have around.몯

As Fisher said this he picked up his logic, in which both he and Duncan
had failed miserably that day, and read in a listless, indifferent tone멪

몮What is true with limitations is frequently assumed to be true
absolutely. Thus멪몬Deleterious drugs are always to be rejected; opium is
a deleterious drug; therefore opium is always to be rejected.몭 What몭s
wrong with that reasoning, Clarence?몯

몮I don몭t know and I don몭t care,몯 answered the latter, snatching the book
from his friend몭s hand and slamming it down upon the table. 몮Let it go
until this evening, and then we will study it together. Let몭s have a
game of checkers now, and see if you can beat me as badly as you did the
last time we played.몯

몮I don몭t much like those fellows, Don,몯 said Bert, when Fisher and
Duncan had taken their leave.

몮I can몭t see what there is wrong about them,몯 replied Don, who knew in a
moment what his brother meant. 몮I am sure they acted very honorably in
coming here to make things right with us.몯

몮I have nothing to say against that,몯 Bert hastened to answer. 몮But I
don몭t like to hear them talk so glibly about disobeying the rules.몯

몮I don몭t know that that is any business of yours or mine either,몯 said
Don, rather impatiently. 몮If they are willing to take the risk, and
abide the consequences if they are detected, that is their own affair.
_You_ needn몭t do it.몯

몮I!몯 exclaimed Bert, in great amazement. 몮You maybe sure that I have no
intention of doing anything of the kind, and I hope you haven몭t,
either.몯

몮You need not waste any valuable time in worrying about me. I am able to
look out for myself. But I몭ll tell you what몭s a fact, Bert: I don몭t
think as much of this military business as I did a few weeks ago. If I
were only back home with my pony, dogs and guns, I tell you I would stay
there. I feel more like going out in the woods and knocking over a wild
turkey than I do like sitting here in this gloomy room preparing for
to-morrow몭s recitations.몯

Don opened one of the books that lay upon the table, but the page on
which he fastened his eyes might have been blank for all he saw there.
His mind was not upon the work that demanded his attention. He was
thinking over his recent interview with Fisher and Duncan.

몮I wonder if they pass their evenings at Cony Ryan몭s when they run the
guards?몯 said Don to himself. 몮I wonder, too, if Cony몭s hotel, or
whatever he calls it, was in existence when my father attended this
school, and if he went there to eat pancakes. If he did, I don몭t see how
he can find any fault with me if I go there. Tom and Clarence don몭t seem
to be such a bad lot, and it is nothing more than fair that I should
meet their advances half way.몯

When the hour for recreation came, Don did something he had never done
before in his life. Watching his opportunity he slipped away from Bert
and set out to hunt up Fisher and Duncan. He did not have much trouble
in finding them, for they also were looking for him. After returning his
salute they slipped their arms through his and led him toward the
gymnasium.

몮You are a stranger here,몯 said Clarence, 몮and as we know you must be
lonely we will introduce you to the boys in our set, if you would like
to know them.몯

몮You will find them all tip-top fellows,몯 added Tom. 몮You see, there is
a little crowd of us who run together, and somehow we manage to have
good times. There are some boys here, however, with whom we never have
anything to do. We will point them out to you as fast as we can, so that
you can steer clear of them.몯

몮They are high-toned lads,몯 said Clarence, 몮and won몭t associate with any
but the members of their own class. Some of them are preparing for West
Point. They pride themselves on being soldiers all over; and if they
can몭t prove their soldierly qualities in any other way, they will report
somebody.몯

몮Where몭s your brother?몯 asked Tom, suddenly.

Don replied that he didn몭t know where he was.

몮I rather fancied that he didn몭t exactly like what we said about running
the guard a while ago,몯 continued Tom. 몮Did he?몯

몮No, he didn몭t. He wouldn몭t think of doing such a thing.몯

몮Well, then, he can make up his mind to be gated on an average of once a
month as long as he stays here; for no matter how hard he tries, he
can몭t help breaking some of the rules. If he has a mind to submit to
confinement멪why, that몭s his business and not mine.몯

몮I haven몭t done it since I have been here,몯 said Fisher, emphatically;
몮and, what몭s more, I won몭t.몯

몮Where do you go when you run the guard?몯

몮Anywhere we please. Sometimes we spend an hour or two in skating or
sleigh-riding, and when we get tired of that, we go down to Cony Ryan몭s
after pancakes and mince-pies.몯

몮I don몭t, for the life of me, see how you can get out,몯 said Don. 몮There
are sentries all around the grounds.몯

몮It does require some skill and cunning, that몭s a fact, especially when
fellows who don몭t like you happen to be on duty. But if the members of
your own set are on post, it is easy enough. All you have to do is to
give them notice of your coming, and they will turn their backs until
you can creep by them.몯

몮Go with us to-night, and we will show you how it is done,몯 said Fisher.

몮That몭s so!몯 exclaimed Clarence, as if the idea had just been suggested
to him. 몮It will be a good time; another like it may not occur for a
month. Will you do it, Gordon? I dare you.몯

몮It is a common saying in my country that a man who will take a dare
will steal sheep,몯 said Don.

몮Of course he will,몯 answered Clarence. 몮I knew we had not been mistaken
in you.몯

몮We haven몭t had any of Cony몭s pies and pancakes this winter,몯 continued
Tom, 몮and we are getting hungry for some. I have taken particular pains
to find out who the sentries are, and I know that some of them are good
men and true. There are some of our boys now. Come on, Gordon, and we
will make you acquainted with them.몯

They had by this time entered the gymnasium,멪a large building which
stood a little apart from the academy, and was fitted up with all the
appliances that are supposed to be necessary or useful in such
institutions. It was filled with students who were exercising their
muscles in various ways, and among them Don recognized some of the boys
who had composed the hazing party. Don was introduced to them one after
another, and was welcomed by them in the most cordial manner. They spent
a few minutes in talking and laughing over the incidents of the previous
night; and then, at a sign from Fisher, they drew off on one side so
that they could carry on their conversation without danger of being
overheard by those who did not belong to their 몮set.몯

몮Fellows, Gordon is one of us; Duncan and I vouch for him; so you need
not hesitate to speak freely in his presence,몯 said Tom, again taking up
the subject that just then was nearest his heart. 몮Do we go to Cony
Ryan몭s to-night or not?몯

몮Of course,몯 replied all the boys, in chorus.

몮Then that much is settled. I know who the guards are,몯 he added,
turning to Don, 몮and I will see you safely out and back. As soon as we
are out of the building멪멪몯

몮But how am I going to get out?몯 interrupted Don. 몮You forget the sentry
who has charge of our floor.몯

몮No, I don몭t. Here he is,몯 said Tom, taking by the arm a boy who had
been introduced as Charley Porter. 몮You won몭t stop him, will you,
Charley?몯

몮I shall not know when he goes out,몯 was the ready answer. 몮I can be
both blind and deaf when circumstances require that I should be so.몯

몮You see what kind of fellows we are,몯 said Tom. 몮You will never be
reported for having a light after taps, or for any other offence, by one
of us.몯

Tom then went on to tell Don just what he must do in order to make his
undertaking successful, and, aided by his friends, who put in a word now
and then, succeeded in making him believe that Cony Ryan몭s was but
little short of a paradise, and that he (Tom) and his 몮set몯 had done him
a great favor in bringing the house and its proprietor to his notice. He
promised to be on hand at the hour appointed, and then he and Tom went
into the dressing-room to put on their gymnastic suits, while Duncan
hurried away to carry out an idea of his own that had suddenly suggested
itself to him.




                              CHAPTER VI.
                         CONY RYAN몭S PANCAKES.


몮He did bite, didn몭t he?몯 said Duncan to himself, as he hurried about
the grounds and through the academy building looking everywhere for Dick
Henderson. 몮He jumped at the bait quicker than I thought he would; but
he never would have done it if he had not got himself into trouble last
night. That made him mad, and now he don몭t much care what he does. We몭ll
fix him. A court-martial and extra lessons and guard duty and drills for
a whole month will so disgust him with this school that he will clear
out, and we shall be well rid of him.몯

Duncan soon found the boy of whom he was in search, and the following is
a part of the conversation that took place between them:

몮You are on post No. 5, down there at the north side of the grounds
to-night, are you not?몯 said Duncan.

Dick replied that he was, that he went on at midnight.

몮Well, you know that the boys are going down to Cony Ryan몭s to-night,
don몭t you?몯 continued Clarence.

Yes, Dick knew all about it, and stood ready to help them in every way
he could, without getting himself into trouble.

몮Well,몯 said Duncan, again, 몮Don Gordon is going with us.몯

Dick seemed delighted to hear it.

몮We roped him in just as easy as falling off a log,몯 Clarence went on.
몮He has been introduced to some of the fellows, and Fisher and I have
worked things so nicely that he doesn몭t suspect anything. Now you must
be on the alert to catch him when we come back, which will be some time
between one and four o몭clock.몯

몮How shall I know him from the rest of you?몯

몮By the signal, of course. Have you forgotten that?몯 Here Duncan coughed
slightly, and in a peculiar manner.

몮No, I haven몭t forgotten it. I only want to know just how things are
going to be managed, so that I shall not make any mistakes. It would be
awkward, you know, if I should call the corporal of the guard to arrest
the wrong fellow.몯

몮You musn몭t do that,몯 said Duncan, quickly. 몮It would be much better to
let Gordon pass unchallenged with the rest of us. You know we boys got
ourselves into lots of trouble last term, and if we don몭t keep our names
off the black-list from this time on, we stand a good chance of being
sent down.몯

(By being 몮sent down몯 Duncan meant 몮expelled.몯)

몮All right,몯 said Dick. 몮I know just what you want of me. Do everything
just as it was done last term, and I will see that our boys get safely
through, and that Don Gordon comes in for a court-martial.몯

When the hour for dress-parade arrived the classes were marched to the
drill-room by their respective captains, three of them being drawn up in
line, while the Plebes were stationed at one end of the room so that
they could watch the movements of their comrades, and learn something of
the duties that would be required of them when they were well enough
drilled in the manual of arms and school of the company to go on parade
themselves. There were two of them who did not pay much attention to the
proceedings, although they appeared to watch them closely, and they were
Don and Bert Gordon. They noticed that the adjutant carried some papers
in his belt, and they knew instinctively that one of them contained
something that would prove to be of interest to them.

In obedience to the adjutant몭s order, the captains brought their
companies to 몮parade rest,몯 the band 몮sounded off,몯 a few exercises in
the manual of arms were gone through with, and then came the command:
몮Attention to orders.몯 Don listened, and heard his name and Bert몭s read
off in connection with those of three or four other culprits, who were
ordered to be punished according to their deserts. It was ordered that
privates Donald and Hubert Gordon, for overstaying their time, and
having a light burning in their quarters after taps (this being their
second offence), be deprived of liberty for thirty days, and required to
stand guard for four hours on the ensuing Saturday afternoon with packed
knapsacks. Then the parade was dismissed, the band struck up a lively
tune, the officers advanced to salute the commander of the battalion,
and the first sergeants marched their companies to the armory, where
ranks were broken.

몮Didn몭t I tell you just how it would be?몯 whispered Fisher, who happened
to overtake Don while the latter was on his way to his room. 몮It몭s no
trouble at all to stand an extra, for it is over with in four hours; and
as for depriving you of your liberty멪that몭s all in my one eye. You can
see much more fun without a pass than you can with one, for you are not
obliged to return at any specified time.몯

몮I don몭t mind the punishment as much as I do the disgrace,몯 said Don.

몮Disgrace!몯 echoed Fisher. 몮Nonsense. This has been a military school
for half a century or more, and of the thousands of students who have
been graduated here, there are not a hundred who did not, at some time
or another, break some rule, and get punished for it. Why, my own father
used to run the guard.몯

몮So did mine,몯 said Don.

몮_Your_ father!몯 exclaimed Tom, in great surprise. 몮Did he ever attend
this school?몯

몮Yes; he received a military education and prepared for college here.몯

몮I am surprised to hear it. Well, he didn몭t get through the whole course
without being hauled up occasionally, did he? I just know he didn몭t, if
he was a boy who had any spirit in him. Now, as I may not see you again
until the time for action arrives, I want to know if you understand just
what you have to do.몯

Don answered that he was sure he did, and then went on to repeat the
instructions he had received in the gymnasium. When he had finished,
Fisher gave him an approving wink and nod, and left him.

During the evening Don and Bert did very little studying. The latter
took his punishment very much to heart; and asked himself over and over
what his mother would think when she heard of it; while Don was so busy
thinking of the festivities that were to come off at Cony Ryan몭s, that
he could not have concentrated his mind on his books if he had tried.
When taps were sounded the light went out instanter.

몮I shall never get into trouble for _that_ again,몯 said Don, as he
tumbled into bed, after bidding his brother good-night. 몮The next time I
am reported, it will be for something that is worth reporting.몯

Don began to be excited now. He had been instructed to wait twenty
minutes, as near as he could guess at it, in order to give the officer
of the day time to make his rounds, which he did as often as the huge
bell in the cupola tolled the hours. He knew when the officer ascended
the stairs, heard him talking with the sentry who had charge of that
floor, and breathed easier when he went down again멪but only for a
moment, for now something that appeared to be an insurmountable obstacle
arose before him all on a sudden. The sensitive Bert was sadly troubled,
and when he got that way, it was almost impossible for him to go to
sleep. In case he remained awake until the expiration of the twenty
minutes, what could Don do?

몮I never thought of that,몯 soliloquized the latter, his ears telling him
the while that Bert was tossing restlessly about on his bed. 몮It would
be simply impossible for me to get up and dress and slip out of the room
without his knowledge. Of course I might go out openly and above board,
for I know that he would never blow on me; but if I do that, he will
improve every opportunity to lecture me, and I would rather spend every
Saturday afternoon in walking extras than listen to him. I ought to have
told the fellows to allow me at least an hour.몯

While Don was busy with such reflections as these, and trying in vain to
conjure up some plan for leaving the room without attracting his
brother몭s attention, he was electrified by a gentle snore which came
from the direction of Bert몭s bed. Don thought it was a pleasant sound to
hear just then, for it told him that the way was clear. In an instant he
was out on the floor, and in five minutes more he was dressed. After
wrapping one of his pillows up in the quilts and arranging them as well
as he could in the dark, so that they would bear some resemblance to a
human figure, he walked across the room with noiseless steps and
cautiously opened the door. The hall was lighted up by a single
gas-burner, under which the sentry, Charley Porter, sat reading a book.
He looked up when he heard Don몭s door grating on its hinges; but he did
not look Don몭s way. He turned his eyes in the other direction. Then he
laid down his book, got upon his feet, and walking leisurely along the
hall with his hands behind his back, took his stand in front of a
window, and looked out into the darkness. His back was turned toward
Don, who closed the door of his room behind him, moved along the hall on
tip-toe, and dodging around an angle in the wall, was quickly out of
sight. A few hurried steps brought him to another door, which yielded to
his touch, and then Don found himself in utter darkness.

This door gave access to the back stairs, which ran from the ground
floor to the upper story of the building, and were intended to be used
only as a fire-escape. The doors that opened into it멪there was one on
each floor멪were kept locked, and all the keys that rightfully belonged
to them were hung up on a nail in the superintendent몭s room, where they
could be readily found by the teachers in case circumstances required
that they should be brought into use. The superintendent was happy in
the belief that by placing a sentry in charge of the dormitories on each
floor, and keeping the keys of these doors under his eye all the time,
he had put it out of the power of any student to leave the building
during the night; but he had not taken into consideration the fact that
sentries may sometimes prove false to their duty, and that an old rusty
key, picked up in the yard, can, by the aid of a file and a little
ingenuity, be made to fit almost any lock. Tom Fisher and his friends
all had keys that would open these doors, and Don had resolved that he
would have one too.

몮B-l-e-r-s,몯 whispered Don, as he stepped out into the fire-escape.

몮R-a-m,몯 came the response, in the same low whisper.

The pass-word of the band of worthies to which Don now belonged was
몮Ramblers.몯 Of course it was used only in the dark, or when the members
could not see each other. If a boy desired to know whether or not a
student whom he suddenly encountered in some out-of-the-way place was a
friend, all he had to do was to spell the last syllable of the
pass-word, as Don had done; and if he received the same answer that Don
did, he knew at once that he had found some one who could be depended
on. At least that was what Fisher and Duncan told Don; but the reader
already knows that they did not tell him the truth.

몮Who is it?몯 whispered Don.

몮Fisher,몯 replied the owner of that name; and as he spoke he stepped
forward to lock the door.

몮Hadn몭t you better leave it unfastened?몯 asked Don.

몮Not by a great sight,몯 answered Fisher, quickly. 몮The officer of the
day and the corporal on duty try all these doors every time they make
their rounds, and if they should happen to find one of them unlocked,
good-by to all our hopes of eating pies and pancakes at Cony Ryan몭s
again this winter.몯

몮Then how can I get back to my room?몯

몮Why, I shall be here to open the door for you.몯

몮But we might get separated, you know.몯

몮Oh, no we won몭t,몯 answered Tom, confidently. 몮Don몭t you be at all
uneasy on that score. Duncan and I will stand by you. Come on, now; the
boys are all ready and waiting.몯

몮How fearful dark it is,몯 said Don. 몮I can몭t see my hand before me.몯

몮Neither can I; but I have been through here so often that I know every
step of the way. Give me your hand.몯

Fisher took Don in tow and succeeded in conducting him safely down two
flights of stairs멪it afterward proved to be a fortunate thing for Don
that he remembered that멪and out into the yard where Duncan and the rest
were waiting for them. After greeting Don in the most cordial manner
they moved off in a body toward the north corner of the grounds멪all
except Tom Fisher, who went on ahead to notify the sentry of their
approach. This he did in some mysterious way, and without alarming any
of the guards on the neighboring posts; and the boy, who ought to have
called the corporal of the guard at once, went into his box and stayed
there until Tom and his companions had crossed his beat and were out of
sight. They easily found the place where two of the tall fence pickets
had been loosened at the bottom, and pushing these aside they crept
through the opening into the road.

몮Well, Gordon, that wasn몭t such a very hard thing to do, was it?몯 said
Duncan, as he took off his overcoat and shook the snow out of it.

몮No,몯 answered Don, 몮and I don몭t see much fun in it, either. It is not a
very smart thing to crawl by a sentry who is accommodating enough to
keep out of sight until you have had time to get out of harm몭s way.
There몭s no excitement in it멪anybody could do it. If that guard had been
faithful to his trust, I should think we had done something worth
bragging about.몯

몮O, you want excitement, do you?몯 exclaimed Duncan. 몮You want a chance
to run by some spooney who would be only too glad to report you and get
you into a row, don몭t you? All right. We몭ll see that you get the chance,
and very shortly, too; won몭t we, boys?몯

몮Yes,몯 replied all the boys, in concert.

몮And, unless I am very badly mistaken, you will see quite as much
excitement as you want to-night,몯 added Duncan, to himself. 몮If Dick
Henderson does his duty, you will be under arrest and a candidate for a
court-martial before you see the inside of your dormitory again.몯

During the walk to the big pond, near which Cony Ryan몭s house stood,
Don몭s new friends entertained him with many thrilling stories of the
deeds of daring that had been performed by themselves and former
students, such as running the guard when all the posts were occupied by
those who were not friendly to them; stealing the bell-rope when the
cupola was guarded by some of the best soldiers in the academy; turning
the bell upside down on a cold night, filling it with water and allowing
it to freeze solid; and spiking the gun whose unwelcome booming aroused
them at so early an hour every morning. As Don listened he began to grow
excited; and when there was a little lull in the conversation, he
proposed one or two daring schemes of his own that had suddenly occurred
to him, and which were so far ahead of any his auditors had ever engaged
in, that they could hardly believe he was in earnest.

몮Gordon, you see around you a lot of fellows who never have and never
will back down from any reasonable undertaking,몯 said Tom Fisher. 몮But
the idea of stealing a cow, taking her into the grounds and hoisting her
up to the top of the belfry, overpowering and binding every sentry who
stands in our way멪Great Casar몭s ghost! Gordon, you must be taking leave
of your senses.몯

몮And as for taking the butcher몭s big bull-dog up to the top story of the
building, tying a tin can to his tail, and starting him on a run down
four pairs of stairs and through the halls멪that몭s another thing I don몭t
approve of,몯 said Duncan.

몮I guess not,몯 said another of the fellows. 몮I wouldn몭t touch that dog
for a million dollars. We are in for anything new that promises to be
either interesting or exciting, but, as Tom says, it must be something
reasonable. Think up some other plans.몯

The boys had by this time reached Cony Ryan몭s house. Led by Tom Fisher
they mounted the steps, and passing through a narrow hall entered a
neatly furnished little parlor whose walls, could they have found
tongues, would have told some strange and amusing stories of the scenes
that had been enacted there. It was brilliantly lighted, and a cheerful
fire burned in the grate.

몮This looks as though Cony was expecting us, doesn몭t it?몯 said Tom,
gazing about the room with a smile of satisfaction. 몮Take off your
overcoat, Gordon, and sit down. Make yourself at home.몯

몮Do you know,몯 added Duncan, 몮that this house was built and furnished
with the money that the academy boys have put into Cony몭s pocket? Years
ago, when he was nothing but a poor fisherman and lived down there on
the bank of the river in a little shanty about half the size of this
room, it occurred to him that he might turn an honest penny by supplying
the students with milk and pies. He drove a thriving trade until some of
the teachers began to suspect that he was putting something stronger
than water in his milk, and then they shut down on him and he was
forbidden to enter the grounds. But that didn몭t trouble him any. The
boys had got in the habit of spending their extra dimes with him, and
since he couldn몭t come to them any more, they fell into the way of going
to him. Why, Gordon, if you could look over some of his old registers,
you would find in them the names of men who are known all over the
land.몯

Just then a side door opened, admitting a portly, white-bearded old
fellow, dressed in a modest suit of black, who was greeted by the
students in the most uproarious manner. They crowded around him, all
trying to shake his hands at the same time, while Cony, for it was he,
beamed benevolently upon them over his spectacles. This was the first
time he had seen any of them since the close of the last school term.

몮You see we are all on hand again, Cony,몯 said Duncan, when the
greetings were over. 몮And if you will trot out a few plates of your
pancakes, you will find that we are as hungry as ever. By the way, did
you know a boy of the name of Gordon who used to attend this academy?몯

몮Gordon of Mississippi?몯 exclaimed Cony, who, having a retentive memory,
never forgot the names of any of his patrons. 몮I should say so. He has
spent many a pleasant evening in this room.몯

몮Well, here is one of his boys,몯 continued Duncan. 몮Mr. Ryan, Mr. Donald
Gordon.몯

The old fellow was very much surprised.

몮It doesn몭t seem possible,몯 said he, as he shook Don몭s hand and gave him
a good looking over. 몮He is the very image of his father, who was one of
the finest-looking young soldiers I ever put my eyes on. Mercy on us,
how time does fly!몯

몮Say, Cony,몯 said Tom Fisher, coaxingly, 몮can몭t we have just one game of
몬sell out,몭 to-night?몯

몮No, sir,몯 was the emphatic reply. 몮You can have all the pancakes you
want, and as much sweet milk or buttermilk as you can hold, but you
don몭t turn a card in this house. It is bad enough for you to run the
guard, and if I did my duty, I should report the last one of you in the
morning.몯

몮Suppose you trot out the pancakes and milk, and let somebody else
report us,몯 suggested Don.

몮Yes; that몭s the idea,몯 cried the others, with one voice.

Don thought he enjoyed himself that night, and his companions thought
so, too, for he sang as many songs, told as many stories, and laughed as
heartily as any of them. He listened with much interest while Cony told
of the exploits of the students he had known in the years gone by, and
who had since made themselves famous as lawyers, legislators and
soldiers, and was greatly astonished when Tom Fisher jumped to his feet
with his watch in his hand and a look of alarm on his face.

몮Fellows,몯 said he, 몮where has the night gone? It is half-past three,
and we have just half an hour in which to crawl by Dick Henderson몭s post
and get into bed. If we are two minutes behind time we are a gone
community.몯

This startling announcement broke up the party at once. The boys made a
simultaneous rush for their overcoats and caps, and after Don had
settled their bill멪a proceeding on his part that raised him to a high
place in the estimation of some of the students whose parents did not
think it best to give them a very liberal allowance of spending
money멪they dashed out of the house and started for the academy on a dead
run, Duncan and Don Gordon bringing up the rear. If the latter had known
what the boy who kept so close to his elbow was thinking about, he would
have thrown him headlong into the nearest snow-drift.




                              CHAPTER VII.
                           RUNNING THE GUARD.


몮Now, boys,몯 said Tom Fisher, 몮one at a time, but remember lively is the
word. Gordon, you had better stay back and watch the rest of us, and
then you will know how to proceed when your turn comes. We are not
afraid of Henderson, but still we don몭t want to show ourselves to him
too plainly, for fear that the corporal of the guard or the officer of
the day may be loafing around somewhere within sight of his post.몯

They had now reached the academy grounds, and half the time at their
disposal had already been consumed. They had barely fifteen minutes
left, and haste was necessary. As matters stood, all the floors and one
of the outside beats were in charge of boys who had been duly posted,
and would permit them to pass unchallenged; but these accommodating
guards would very soon be relieved, and their places taken by those who
would report them the first thing in the morning.

As Fisher spoke he pushed aside the loosened fence-pickets, squeezed
himself through the opening, and, with his body half bent, made his way
toward Dick Henderson몭s post. Presently he threw himself upon his hands
and knees, and in a few seconds more was out of sight. Another and
another followed him, and finally Duncan took his turn, and Don was left
alone.

몮Don몭t be in too great a hurry,몯 were the latter몭s parting words. 몮Let
me get out of your sight before you start.몯

During the last hour and a half Dick Henderson had been walking his beat
in no very pleasant frame of mind. Tom had told him that he and his
friends would return some time between the hours of two and four; but at
three o몭clock Dick had seen no signs of them.

몮I wonder if they went in at some other part of the grounds,몯 Dick often
said to himself. 몮I can몭t believe they did, for I think I am the only
fellow in our crowd who holds an outside post to-night. Besides, Duncan
said they would come in here, so that I could halt Don Gordon. They몭ll
have to hurry up if they want me to do anything for them.몯

As the minutes wore away Dick몭s anxiety increased, and finally he became
really alarmed. The bell had struck three long ago, and Dick was
beginning to look for his relief, when, to his great joy, he saw
somebody creeping toward him through the deep snow. As soon as he caught
sight of him he moved back to his box and stood behind it, leaning on
his musket. The boy, Tom Fisher, crossed Dick몭s beat in plain view of
him, uttering a peculiar cough as he passed, and disappeared behind the
high piles of snow that had been thrown out of the path leading to the
academy.

몮That몭s one,몯 thought Dick, 몮and Duncan said there were to be nine in
the party. I am to allow eight of them to go in peace, and the ninth
man, who will be Don Gordon, is to be halted and turned over to the
tender mercies of the officer of the day. That is two,몯 he added, as
another boy crept by, giving the 몮signal몯 as he went.

When the eighth man was safely out of sight Dick shouldered his musket
and stepping out from behind his box, prepared for action. As he came
into view, a boy who was moving rapidly toward him, in a crouching
attitude, suddenly stopped, and then as suddenly plunged into the
nearest snowdrift, burying himself in it head and ears.

몮That fellow is like an ostrich,몯 soliloquized Dick, as he walked
quickly along his beat. 몮He thinks that because his head is out of
sight, his whole body is concealed.몯

Having taken up a position between the recumbent figure and the path
that led from his beat to the academy, Dick brought his musket to 몮arms
port몯 and sung out, in his loudest tones: 몮Who comes there?몯 immediately
following up his challenge with lusty calls for the corporal of the
guard No. 5. The last words had hardly left his lips when the prostrate
boy sprang to his feet, and coughing up the snow which had filled his
mouth and got into his throat when he made his sudden plunge into the
drift, ran toward the academy with surprising swiftness. Dick heard that
cough, and it affected him very strangely. He stood with open mouth and
eyes, gazing in the direction in which the boy had disappeared, while
his musket trembled in his grasp, and his face grew almost as white as
the snow around him.

몮Now I몭ve done it,몯 he said to himself, with no little alarm. 몮I몭ve gone
and called the corporal for one of our own boys. What in the world shall
I do? Tom and Clarence will read me out of their good books, and I shall
have no one to be friends with, for those high-toned lads in the upper
classes won몭t look at me. Well, if trouble comes of it, they can just
blame Duncan. He told me to stop the ninth boy, and I know I didn몭t make
any mistake in counting them. But what shall I say to the corporal?
That몭s what bothers me.몯

Dick was obliged to come to a decision on this point very speedily, for
just then the door of the guard-room was thrown open, and the corporal
came out and hurried toward him.

몮What몭s the matter, sentry?몯 he asked, as soon as he had approached
within speaking distance.

몮Some fellow has just run by me,몯 was Dick몭s reply.

몮Whew!몯 whistled the corporal. 몮Running the guard has begun rather early
in the term, hasn몭t it? Who was he?몯

몮I don몭t know,몯 answered Dick, and he told the truth.

몮Whom did he look like?몯

몮I don몭t know that, either. You can몭t tell one student from another in
the dark, when they are all dressed alike.몯

몮Then why didn몭t you catch him and find out who he was?몯

몮Catch him!몯 repeated Dick. 몮Cony Ryan몭s grayhound couldn몭t have caught
him. He ran like a deer.몯

몮Well, he몭ll be stopped when he tries to get into his dormitory,몯 said
the corporal, indifferently. 몮I몭ll go and see what the officer of the
day thinks about it. You몭re sure this fellow, whoever he was, didn몭t go
out since you have been on post?몯

몮Of course he didn몭t,몯 said Dick, indignantly.

몮Then Patchen몯 (that was the name of the sentry who held post No. 5 when
Fisher and his companions left the grounds), 몮will have to answer to the
superintendent for neglect of duty,몯 said the corporal, as he turned on
his heel and walked back toward the guard-room.

몮And just as likely as not he will punch my head for getting him into
trouble,몯 thought Dick, trembling again. 몮But I didn몭t mean to do it.
It몭s all that Clarence Duncan몭s fault, for he ought to have told me that
he was going to add more boys to his party. Don Gordon must be outside
the grounds yet, and perhaps some of our boys are with him.몯

Meanwhile Tom Fisher, having gained the academy building in safety,
opened the back door, climbed two pairs of stairs, and felt his way
along the hall to the door that gave entrance to the floor on which Don
Gordon몭s dormitory was situated. This door he unlocked and opened, and
stepping into the next hall saw the sentry who had relieved Charley
Porter at midnight sitting under the light reading a book.

몮Ahem!몯 said Tom; whereupon the sentry laid down his book and walked
toward him.

몮Well, you fellows have made a night of it, haven몭t you?몯 said he, in a
cautious whisper.

몮I should think so,몯 answered Tom. 몮Had a splendid time, too. The
pancakes were just as good as they used to be, and Gordon settled the
bill like a prince.몯

몮You had better go to bed, and be in a hurry about it, too,몯 said the
sentry. 몮It is almost time for me to be relieved.몯

몮I know it; but I promised to wait at this door and let Gordon in. He
has no key of his own.몯

몮If he doesn몭t come along pretty soon he몭ll not get in _this_ morning
without being reported, for Gulick comes after me.몯

몮Is that so? Then he몭d better hurry, that몭s a fact. I can몭t wait much
longer for him without bringing myself into trouble.몯

The sentry, who did not dare remain longer in conversation with Tom for
fear that the officer of the day or the corporal of the guard might come
quietly up the stairs and catch him at it, walked away toward the other
end of the hall, while Tom closed the door and stood there in the dark,
impatiently awaiting the arrival of Don Gordon. He heard his friends as
they crossed the landing one after another, and went on up to their
dormitories, but the boy he wanted to see did not make his appearance.
Presently some one jerked open the back door, slammed it behind him, and
came up the stairs in great haste.

몮Who is that idiot, I wonder? He makes noise enough to arouse the whole
school. B-l-e-r-s,몯 whispered Tom, as the boy sprang upon the landing.

몮R-a-m,몯 came the prompt response.

몮Who is it?몯 continued Tom.

몮Brown.몯

몮Well you are making a fearful racket, the first thing you know,몯 said
Tom, angrily.

몮I am in a hurry,몯 panted the boy. 몮Here몭s the very mischief to pay.
That fool Henderson has gone and challenged one of our fellows.몯

몮No,몯 gasped Tom, who was greatly alarmed.

몮But I say he has, for I heard him. Come on. We musn몭t stay here another
moment.몯

몮But I promised to let Gordon in,몯 said Tom.

몮What do you care for Gordon? Let him go and take care of yourself.
That몭s what I am going to do.몯

So saying the boy went on up the stairs, leaving Tom to himself. The
latter could not make up his mind what to do. He knew that he was in
danger, but still he did not like to desert Don in his extremity. Don,
speaking in school-boy parlance, had shown himself to be a thoroughbred.
He could sing a good song, tell an interesting story, and, better than
all, he was provided with a liberal supply of pocket-money, which he
spent with a lavish hand. This was enough to raise him to a high place
in the estimation of Tom Fisher, whose own supply of dimes was limited.

몮I have it?몯 soliloquized Tom, at length, 몮I몭ll leave the key in the
lock, and if he succeeds in getting by the guard he can let himself in.
Of course he will have sense enough to fasten the door after him, and
put the key in his pocket. Henderson will have to explain his conduct in
the morning. He had no business to halt any of our fellows unless he did
it to protect himself.몯

Tom hurriedly ascended the next flight of stairs, but scarcely had he
reached the top when the back door was thrown open again and another boy
came bounding up the steps. It was Clarence Duncan, who was
congratulating himself on the complete success of his plans. He lingered
a moment or two in the hall where Fisher had stood waiting for Don
Gordon, and then went on to his own dormitory. The floor-guard was so
very deeply interested in a dime novel that he did not appear to see or
hear him as he passed, and in a few seconds more Clarence was safe in
bed. He was just in time. He had not been between the sheets two minutes
before he heard the gruff tones of the officer of the day, who was
questioning the floor-guard. Clarence could not hear what they said, but
he knew what they were talking about. Presently he heard doors softly
opened and closed. The sounds came nearer, and at last the door of his
own room was opened, and the officer of the day, attended by the
corporal of the guard, who carried a lantern in his hand, stepped across
the threshold. The officer saw Duncan and Fisher lying with their faces
to the wall, apparently fast asleep, took note of the fact that their
clothes were deposited in orderly array upon the chairs at the side of
their beds, and departed satisfied with his investigations. In a few
minutes the relief came up, and Clarence began to breathe easier.

몮Say, Fisher,몯 he whispered, 몮are you asleep?몯

몮No,몯 was the reply. 몮And what몭s more, I don몭t want to go to sleep. If I
do, I am afraid I shall miss roll-call, and then the superintendent
would know where to look to find at least one fellow who ran the
guards.몯

몮I think myself that it would be a good plan for us to keep awake. Say,
Fisher,몯 whispered Clarence, again, 몮Gordon몭s goose is cooked.몯

몮What do you mean by that?몯

몮I mean just what I say. I shall be amply revenged on him for the
insults he has heaped upon us. When we came through the fence I managed
to keep him until the last, and Henderson halted him. I didn몭t know but
he might succeed in getting by in spite of Dick몭s efforts to stop him,
so, in order to make assurance doubly sure, I took the pains to examine
the door in the second hall, and in it I found a key that some kind
friend had left there for his benefit. But I just took the key out of
that lock, and put it into my pocket. Don can몭t possibly get in without
being reported by the floor-guard, and he can take his choice between
freezing outside and giving himself up to the corporal.몯

몮Did you tell Henderson to halt him?몯 demanded Fisher, who had listened
with the greatest amazement to this astounding revelation.

몮Yes, sir, I did,몯 chuckled Duncan, who seemed to be highly elated. 몮I
posted Dick yesterday afternoon, and he carried out my idea to a dot. I
didn몭t expect to get even with Gordon so soon, did you?몯

몮Well, of all the blunder-heads I ever saw you are the greatest,몯 said
Tom, in deep disgust.

몮Why, what몭s the matter?몯 demanded Duncan, who was now surprised in his
turn. 몮What are you going to do?몯 he added, as Tom got out of his bed
and moved toward the door.

몮I am going to see if there is any chance for me to undo your miserable
work,몯 replied Tom, who was so enraged that he could scarcely speak.
몮You have made a nice mess by your meddling. Why didn몭t you ask the
advice of the rest of us before issuing any orders on your own
responsibility? You몭re just a trifle too smart to be of any use to me
hereafter.몯

Opening the door Tom looked out into the hall, and saw at a glance that
he could do nothing to help the unlucky Don. He had intended, if it were
possible, to go down to the lower floor and put the key back in the lock
so that Don could use it in case he succeeded by any chance in getting
past the sentry; but he could not carry this plan into execution now,
because the floor-guard who had permitted himself and Duncan and all the
other boys who belonged on that floor to pass unnoticed, had been
relieved, and his chair was occupied by a boy who could not be fooled
with.

몮Anything wanting, Fisher?몯 asked the sentry, looking up from his book.

몮I thought somebody came into my room a few minutes ago,몯 said Tom, in
reply.

몮So there did. It was the officer of the day.몯

몮What did he want?몯

몮Not much of anything, only to make sure that you were in bed where you
belong.몯

몮What몭s up?몯

몮Somebody has been running the guard; that몭s all.몯

몮Did they catch him?몯

몮No; and neither did Henderson recognize him. There몭s something
mysterious about it. As far as I can learn there is no one missing, and
the floor-guards are all willing to swear that nobody has passed in or
out of the academy since taps. Good-morning.몯

As this was a hint that the sentry did not want to talk any longer, Tom
drew in his head and closed the door.

몮Now I _am_ beat,몯 said he, aloud; and so was Duncan who had sat up in
bed and heard every word that passed between his room-mate and the
sentry. 몮Gordon was stopped by Dick Henderson, locked out in the cold
through your lack of sense, and yet the officer of the day finds him in
his room! How does that come? I can몭t understand it.몯

몮Neither can I,몯 said Duncan. 몮But, Tom, what made you get so angry at
me?몯

몮I had two reasons for it. In the first place you had no right to tell
Henderson to stop Don until you found out what the rest of us thought
about it. You took altogether too much upon yourself when you presumed
to act for a dozen or more fellows in the way you did.몯

몮Have you forgotten that Gordon has repeatedly neglected to salute us,
and that he threatened to make spread-eagles of the pair of us?몯
demanded Clarence. 몮I wanted to get even with him for that.몯

몮That몭s no excuse. I want to get even with him too, and, what is more, I
intend to do it; but I never would have given my consent to your idea,
as you call it. While we were coming from Cony몭s I made up my mind that
I would propose to the boys to take Gordon into full fellowship with us
and stand by him through thick and thin until near the close of the
term; and when we had enjoyed all the treats we could squeeze out of
him, _then_ we몭d go for him. He몭s got a lot of money, and, what몭s more
to the point, he is perfectly willing to spend it.몯

몮That몭s so,몯 said Duncan, thoughtfully. 몮Your idea is better than mine.
Why didn몭t you speak of it before?몯

몮I should have thought your own good sense, if you had any, would have
suggested it to you,몯 answered Tom. 몮I have been thinking about it ever
since we left Cony몭s. Your governor and mine have curtailed our
allowance, and unless somebody foots the bills for us, how are we going
to get any pancakes this term? Besides, we may want to borrow a dollar
occasionally, and I know Gordon will give it to us if we only handle him
right.몯

몮That몭s so,몯 said Duncan, again. 몮I wish I had kept away from
Henderson.몯

몮So do I. We may see trouble over that thing yet. I wish it was morning.
I shall be on nettles until I see Don in the ranks. I hope he will get
in all right, but somehow I can몭t bring myself to believe that he will.몯

The two boys did not sleep a wink that night멪or morning, rather. They
rolled and tossed about on their beds, waiting impatiently for the
report of the morning gun which finally rang out on the frosty air,
being followed almost immediately by the rattle of drums and the
shrieking of fifes in the drill-room. They marched down with their
company, and while the roll was being called they ran their eyes over
the Plebes who were drawn up at the farther end of the room. There was
Don Gordon in the front rank, looking as fresh as a daisy and as
innocent as though he had never violated a rule in his life.

몮He did get in, didn몭t he?몯 said Duncan, while he and Fisher were
clearing up their room in readiness for inspection. 몮He didn몭t seem any
the worse for his night몭s experience, either; but did you notice Dick
Henderson? His face was as long as your arm.몯

Having received positive proof that Don had succeeded in reaching his
room in spite of the fact that the hall-door had been locked against
him, Tom and his companion, their friendly relations having been fully
restored by the unexpected and mysterious failure of Duncan몭s 몮idea,몯
became anxious to know how he had done it. During the two hours of study
that came after the inspection of their rooms, they did not look at
their books.

As soon as breakfast was over and the ranks were broken, they put on
their overcoats and went out in search of Don. They found him in a very
few minutes, for he was also looking for them. He was just as anxious to
know why he had been challenged while the other members of the party
were allowed to pass, as they were to ascertain how he had got back to
his room. Before any of the three could speak, Dick Henderson came
rushing up.

몮O, boys!몯 he began.

몮That will do for the present, Bub,몯 interrupted Duncan.

몮Run away now, like a good little boy.몯

몮But I say, fellows,몯 exclaimed Dick.

몮Well, say it some other time. We are busy just now.몯

몮Let him speak,몯 said Don. 몮I want him to tell why he stopped me this
morning.몯

몮I didn몭t stop you,몯 replied Dick.

몮That몭s a fact, you didn몭t. But you tried to all the same, and I want to
know what you meant by it.몯

몮Why, Gordon, it can몭t be possible that you were멪eh?몯

Dick was about to ask Don if he was the boy who tried to bury himself
out of sight in a snowdrift, and who jumped up and ran toward the
academy when the corporal of the guard was summoned; but he was
interrupted by a look from Duncan. Then the latter pointed with his
thumb over his shoulder, and Dick, who understood the motion, beat a
hasty retreat, looking crestfallen as well as bewildered.

몮He committed a most inexcusable blunder, and came very near getting the
whole of us into hot water,몯 said Fisher, who knew that he must offer
something in the way of explanation. 몮We will give him a good talking
to, and make him promise to be more careful in future. Now, Gordon, how
in the world did you get in?몯

몮Easy enough,몯 answered Don. 몮I say, boys, there몭s lots of fun in
running the guard, and some little excitement too. I am ready to try it
again any night. Come on, and I will tell you all about it.몯

The three boys linked their arms together and walked toward an
unfrequented part of the grounds, so that Don could give the details of
his exploit without danger of being overheard. We will tell the story in
our own way.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                            HOW DON GOT IN.


몮Don몭t be in too great a hurry. Let me get out of your sight,몯 said
Clarence Duncan, as he crept through the fence; and Don, whose
suspicions had not been aroused, was careful to obey. When he thought
that Clarence had been allowed time to reach the academy, he passed
through the opening and moved toward Dick Henderson몭s post. He saw the
latter when he came out from behind his box and walked along his beat,
and remembering Tom Fisher몭s words of caution멪that it would not be safe
to approach Dick몭s post openly for fear that the officer of the day or
the corporal might be somewhere within sight멪Don sought concealment by
throwing himself at full length in the snow. He expected to see Dick
turn about and go behind his box again; and consequently he was not a
little amazed when the sentry took up a position directly in front of
him, and called for the corporal of the guard.

Don did not know what to make of it; but he _did_ know that if he stayed
where he was, detection and punishment were inevitable. He still had one
chance for escape, and he lost no time in improving it. He jumped up and
took to his heels, trusting to the darkness and to his uniform to
conceal his identity. He was very light of foot, and by doing some of
his best running, he succeeded in dodging around the corner of the
academy building just as the corporal threw open the door of the
guard-room. The signal, which had produced such an effect upon Dick
Henderson, he had given by the merest accident. It was one that Fisher,
by some oversight, had neglected to teach him, although he had let him
into the secret of all the other signs and pass-words.

몮A miss is as good as a mile, but still that was a pretty close shave,몯
said Don to himself, as he opened the back door and felt his way up the
stairs. 몮I can몭t understand why Dick challenged me, unless it was
because my approach was discovered by somebody else who would have
reported him if he hadn몭t tried to stop me.몯

On reaching the second landing Don moved cautiously along the hall,
spelling the last syllable of the pass-word as he went. Greatly to his
surprise, he met with no response. When his hands came in contact with
the door, he began searching for the knob; but when he turned it, the
door did not open for him. It was locked.

몮Now here몭s a go,몯 thought Don, who did not know whether to laugh or get
angry over the predicament in which he so unexpectedly found himself.
몮Where몭s Fisher? He knew very well that I couldn몭t get to my room
without assistance, and yet he has deserted me. If that is the sort of
fellow he is, he몭ll not eat any more pancakes this winter at my
expense.몯

Having satisfied himself that Tom was not on hand, as he had promised to
be, Don placed his ear close to the key-hole, and found that he could
distinctly hear the footsteps of the floor-guard, as he paced up and
down the hall on the other side of the door. There was a fellow who
could and would help him if he could only attract his attention.
Waiting, with all the patience he could command, until the sentry came
down to that end of the hall again, Don rapped softly upon the door, and
in a peculiar manner. The footsteps ceased on the instant; the sentry
was listening. Again Don gave the mystic signal멪one quick rap; then,
after a little pause, three more raps, delivered in rapid succession,
and presently a voice came through the key-hole.

몮B-l-e-r-s!몯 it whispered.

몮R-a-m!몯 whispered Don, in reply.

몮Who is it?몯

몮Gordon.몯

A moment later a key rattled in the lock, the door swung open, and Don
stood face to face with the sentry.

몮Where몭s Fisher?몯 demanded the latter.

몮That몭s just what I should like to know,몯 answered Don. 몮He said he
would be here to let me in, but I haven몭t seen anything of him.몯

몮He몭s a pretty fellow,몯 exclaimed the sentry. 몮I don몭t know whether you
can reach your room or not. The guards have been aroused, and I am
expecting the officer of the day every minute. But I몭ll do the best I
can for you. Stay here till I come back.몯

The sentry was not gone more than a quarter of a minute. He went as far
as the head of the stairs that led to the floor below, and then he
turned and ran back on tip-toe. 몮You몭re too late,몯 said he. 몮The officer
of the day is down stairs, and he몭ll be up here in a second. You might
as well come out and give yourself up, for the boy who comes after me
will not pass you.몯

몮I can몭t help that,몯 replied Don, 몮I몭ll not give myself up. That isn몭t
my style.몯

The sentry had seen many a boy in a tight corner, but he had never
before seen one who took matters as coolly as Don did. All the other
students of his acquaintance would have been frightened when they found
that every avenue of escape was closed against them; but Don was as
serene as a summer몭s morning.

몮You몭re a plucky one,몯 said the sentry, 몮and I am sorry that I can not
help you. If my relief멪Get out of sight, quick! _quick!_몯 he added, as a
heavy step sounded on the stairs. 몮That몭s the officer of the day; and if
he finds this door unlocked, I shall be in as bad a box as you are.몯

Don went back into the hall, his movements being quickened by a gentle
push from the sentry, who, having closed and locked the door, succeeded
in reaching his own hall just a second before the officer of the day
appeared at the head of the stairs. Close at his heels came the corporal
of the guard, who carried a lighted lantern in his hand.

몮Sentry,몯 said the officer, 몮have any of your men left their rooms
to-night?몯

몮Not since 